By Haruna Salami The Senate has resolved to mandate the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum RegulatoryAuthority (NMDPRA) and the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to commence certification ofpetrol tankers as a condition precedent to plying Nigerian roads with petroleum products or otherinflammable substances. This was sequel to a motion brought under matters of urgent public importance pursuant to Orders 41and 51 Standing Orders of the Senate, 2015 by Senator Isah Jibrin (Kogi East) on Wednesday. The motion was titled “urgent need for the intervention of the Federal Government of Nigeria tomitigate the pains of the victims of petrol tanker explosion at Olofu in Ofu LGA of Kogi state”. The Senate noted that Olofu is a popular settlement along Lokoja-Anyigba road in Kogi state, providingaccess points to the South-South, South-East and other parts of the North-Central. Senator Jibrin regreted that a fatal accident involving a petrol tanker occurred at Olofu on the 11″ day ofNovember 2022, which resulted in the explosion of the tanker wherein the consequent inferno lastedfor days. “Saddened that about 30 persons were roasted, 76 others sustained serious injuries and severe burnswhile over 40 vehicles and several motorcycles were burnt by the tanker explosion, leaving innocentcitizens in a state of mourning, agony, and economic helplessness. “Concerned that tanker explosions have occasioned wanton destruction of lives and property, not onlyalong Lokoja-Anyigba road, but across the country, resulting in unprecedented pains and grief toNigerians. “Further Concerned that majority of such petrol tanker explosions are caused by the poor quality of thetanks, which are fabricated and used without standard control to ensure they are of good quality. “Worried that victims of these petrol tanker explosions are left without succour in most cases due tolack of insurance policies to cover such third-party damages, as owners concentrate on insurance coversfor the tankers and their contents only. “Further Worried that studies have it, that about 62 per cent of trucks involved in serious road mishapsthat result in monumental disasters are of poor quality, with most resulting in fire outbreaks, as about54 per cent of fuel spilling that lead: to fire outbreaks are due to negligence on the part of truck driversand poor state of the vehicles. “Alarmed that available data received from the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) show that betweenAugust 2021 and June 2022, 1,070 crashes involving 378 tankers and 792 trailers, occurred across thecountry. “Further Alarmed that available statistics show that, within the same period, 111 vehicles were burnt,while 55 shops and 84 houses were burnt across some states. “Convinced that if urgent steps are not taken to regulate the use of petrol tankers on Nigerian roads, theagony of wanton destruction of lives and property caused by explosions will continue unabated, and thegovernment might not be able to cope with the consequences in the long run. Supporting the motion, Senator Yakubu Oseni (Kogi Central) said Kogi state is bordered by 20 states,including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), adding that “coupled with the bad state of Federal roads,Kogi is worst hit”. Oseni said “Kogi is very vulnerable” due to the reasons given above and therefore deserves FederalGovernment “intervention” since the state government alone cannot carry the burden”. According to him, this type of incidence happens incessantly in Lokoja, Okene and other parts of thestate. Senators Sani Musa (Niger East), Sabi Abdullahi (Niger North) and others overwhelmingly supported themotion. The Senate therefore resolved to urge the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) tointervene in the plight of the victims of the petrol tanker explosion in Olofu, Ofu LGA, Kogi State throughprovision of palliatives to the victims. “Urge the Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions to interface with relevantstakeholders to make it compulsory for petroleum tanker owners to take out insurance, coveringdamages from petrol tanker explosions to third parties in the event of losses to third parties. The Senate finally observed a minute silence in honour of the departed souls in the Olofu petrol tankerexplosion.