Adeyemi Adeleye The PDP in Lagos State on Tuesday,  constituted  a 103-member Presidential Campaign Committee to mobilise votes for the party, ahead of the 2023 general elections.  The PDP Publicity Secretary in the state, Mr Hakeem Amode, who disclosed this in a statement,  said the committee had the task of mobilising votes for the party’s Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and other candidates in the state.  “I am pleaseed to inform you that the PDP Presidential Campaign Council has approved the constitution of the Lagos state presidential campaign committee. “We urge every member to give the individual on the committee the deserved regards at every occasion with respect to the  presidential campaign,” he said.  Amode noted that the committee was made up of deserving party chieftains that had served PDP at one level or the other. According to him, the committee will be chaired by Mr Deji Doherty, a former PDP chairman in the state while Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran, the party’s governorship candidate will serve as the Vice Chairman.  The spokesman, who noted that Mr Tolagbe Animashaun would serve as the campaign director, said the committee would be assisted by 18 directorates in the campaign committee,  headed by a deputy director. He listed the directorates and their heads to include: Media and Publicity (Oluseun Soyinka), Field Operations (David Vaughan), Research and Strategy (Rahman Owokoniran), Volunteer Groups (Taiwo Kuye), Finance (Alaketu Adedoyin), Election Management (Capt. Olatunji Shelle) and Religious/Cultural Engagement (Hajiya Safurat Abdul-Kareem). Others were: Documentation/Reporting (Dr Adetokunbo Pearse), ICT/Situation Room (Niyi Adams), Training (Wole Adewunmi), Non-Yoruba Speaking-South East (Jude Obiekwe), Non-Yoruba Speaking-South South (Odili Ofili), and Non-Yoruba Speaking- Arewa (Auwal Maude). The rest were: Election Management-Ikeja Division (Sunday Olaifa), Election Management-Lagos Division(Tolani Animashaun), Election Management-Epe Division (Taiye Benedict), Election Management-Ikorodu Division (Niyi Sotomiwa) and Election Management-Badagry Division (Adio Salami). Members of the committee included party’s state executive council and other leaders of the party in the state. Some notable leaders who made the list included Jimi Agbaje, Ade Dosunmu, Philip Aivoji, Gomez Adewale, Abimbola Ogunkelu, Dapo Sarumi, Bayo Williams, Wahab Owokoniran, Tanwa Olusi, Fatia Shodimu, Wellington Bankole, Tajudeen Obasa, Sola Osolana, Setonji Koshoedo, and  Idowu Akinsanya among others. Amode said  the committee had a huge task of selling and convincing the electorate to vote candidates of the party in the forthcoming election. (NAN)