By Mohammed Tijjani The Kaduna State Government, said on Monday that the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) aerial patrols have targetted  bandits’ locations and several bandits were neutralized, camps destroyed and some of their hostages escaped. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, confirmed the development in a statement issued in Kaduna.   Aruwan said personnel of the Nigerian Air Force have conducted aerial patrols over identified bandit enclaves across flash points in the state. According to him, details of these missions were made known via operational feedback to the Kaduna State Government.   He disclosed that in Kawara area of Igabi Local Government Area (LGA), a strike was carried out on an identified bandit location. “Three bandits were confirmed neutralized by the strike, and some kidnapped victims were thus able to escape from the general area, as was later confirmed by credible human intelligence sources on the ground. “Similarly, in Walawa, Giwa LGA, an active location was targeted and struck successfully.   He said in Chikun LGA, armed surveillance was carried out over Faka, Kangon Kadi, Damba, Ungwan Turai, Galbi, Gwagwada and environs. “Terrorists were sighted about 4km Northwest of Godani, and were neutralized. “In Kuduru, an active terrorists’ location was sighted and struck with rockets.   Aruwan said in Igabi LGA, operations were conducted over Riyawa, Alhaji Isiaka, Rima, Riyawa, Rumana, Ungwan Liman, Mai Gishiri and the Kaduna Airport area, with no significant activity noticed. “A similar situation obtained in Sabon Birnin, Anaba, Malumi, Wusono and Kerawa. “Also covered by the aerial patrols were the Kaduna-Abuja road and rail line, as well as Jere, Katari, Olam Farms, Gwagwada, Sarkin Pawa, Abulo, Mangoro, Chikwale and environs,” he said.   The Commissioner said normal human and vehicular activities were observed, with no threats encountered. He explained that the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari road and adjoining areas were similarly covered — Buruku, Labi, Udawa, Manini and Polewire up to Kajuru, Jaka da Rabi and Maguzawa.   He said normal activities were observed during aerial patrols over Kajuru, Kankomi, Kutura, Kuzo, Ungwan Magami and Ruga areas. “The Governor of Kaduna State received the feedback with gratitude, and commended the fighter crews for their precision and consistency in the aerial missions.   “Ground and air patrols will continue in these and other locations,” Aruwan said. (NAN)