By Femi Ogunshola The House of Representatives has resolved to convene a summit on tertiary education as part of efforts to proffer solution to the myriads of problems bedeviling the nation’s institutions of higher learning.  The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, said this at the resumption of plenary in Abuja on Monday. According to him, the House will convene a National Summit on Tertiary Education Reform on Nov. 22 and 23.  He said the summit is an opportunity to begin the long-overdue national conversation about the future of public tertiary education in Nigeria. He said scholars, tertiary education administrators, and local and international stakeholders have been invited to submit papers on the theme of the Summit.  The theme, according to him, is “Reimagining Tertiary Education in Nigeria: Issues, Challenges and Solutions”, and other sub-themes provided for in the call for memoranda. He said the presentations and submissions would inform the policy recommendations of the summit and be published in a Journal for policy action and academic reference. “So far, public interest both within and outside Nigeria has been impressive. He said the most consequential decisions in government were those that would ensure the vast population of young people in the country are educated and adequately equipped to participate productively in the modern global economy. “To achieve this, we must ask and answer complex questions about the operating structure of our public tertiary institutions, sustainable funding, education quality and access. He urged the lawmakers to participate in the crucial national conversation so that their experience, expertise and concerns will inform the policy recommendations that would emerge from the summit. Speaking on the 2023 budget proposal, he said the committees of the House had been working on the 2023 Appropriations Bill. He said they would ensure that the final budget serves the needs of the Nigerian people and meets the development objectives of communities across the country. (NAN)