By Aminu Garko The police command in Niger says it has arrested three suspects for allegedly kidnapping, possession of firearm and false impersonation in different part of the state. Wasiu Abiodun, the spokesman of the command, said this in a statement in Minna on Mondday.   Abiodun said that on Nov. 1, based on a tip-off, police operatives attached to Bangi Division raided a shop of one Chinedu Makata of Enugu State who resides in Bangi, Mariga Local Government Area of Niger. During the raid, 47 wraps of suspected cannabis sativa and some other suspected hard drugs were recovered from the shop. In the process of effecting the arrest of the said shop owner, he pulled out a locally made gun and threatened to shoot the police operatives.   However, he was later disarmed and arrested by the police team. He said that the suspect had been arraigned in court for prosecution. Similarly, police operatives attached to Intelligence Unit of the command, arrested one Clement Joseph of Koropka in Chanchaga Local Government Area of the state.   The suspect was arrested for  parading himself as a medical doctor and deceitfully collected N250,000 from an unsuspecting member of the public under false pretence of a fake online business. During interrogation, the suspect confessed to the crime and said that he had carnal knowledge of four other female victims. He confessed that he impregnated one of the victim while he conspired with one Aliyu presently at large and aborted a pregnancy of one other victim.  Similarly, police operatives attached to Lapai Division arrested one Shehu Baidu of Kango village in Lapai Local Government Area of the state. He was arrested for being suspected to be a member of a kidnapping syndicate terrorizing Gurara and  Lapai local government areas.   During interrogation, he confessed that between May 2021 and August, 2022, he conspired with one Sidi Buba, Shehu, Abubakar, Kura-Kura and Chede of no fixed address and operate with three AK47 rifles and invaded Gurara Dam Site and Maijaki village in Gurara Local Government Area. The suspect said that they kidnapped 10 victims, while N2.6m was collected by the syndicate as ransom before their release.   He further confessed that in August 2022, he contacted one Shehu of Saminaka village via Lapai, to purchase five soft drinks, five packets of cigarette and two loaves of bread for him to take same to his gang members in their hideout. He said that the suspect has been arraigned in court for prosecution.(NAN)