By Ishaq Zaki A political support group in Zamfara, “Matawalle/Shehi Amalgamated Mobilisation Group’’, (MASAMOG) has described Gov. Bello Matawalle and former Gov. Abdul’aziz Yari as strong pillars of All Progressives Congress (APC) reconciliation drive in the state.  The group also said it was working to mobilise grassroots support for the APC candidates at all levels. The Coordinator of the group, Alhaji Ibrahim Danmalikin-Gidangoga stated this while speaking to newsmen in Gusau on Monday.  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Matawalle recently donated 17 vehicles as part of his contribution to the group to support the APC reconciliation activities in the state.  Danmalikin-Gidangoga, also a former Commissioner for Information in the state, said the group has membership from APC stakeholders comprising elders, women and youth from the 14 Local Government Areas of the state. According to him, the group was formed to cement the recent reconciliation of APC stakeholders in the state.  ”Matawalle, Yari and other APC stakeholders must be commended for their efforts in resolving the prolonged internal dispute in the party. “We also appreciate them for their kind gesture to the activities of the group as well as the APC at all levels,” he added.  Danmalikin-Gidangoga said that the reconciliation yielded positive result that all political stakeholders in the state were now united in one family under the APC. He added that one of the major mandates of this group was to cement the recent reconciliation among all APC members in the state ahead of 2023 General Elections.  “You know, the 2023 politics is around the corner, part of our responsibilities is to enlighten APC members especially at the grassroots on the need to support the reconciliation drive. “We are going to embark on house to house sensitisation campaign especially at grassroots to ensure APC victory. “We are working to ensure that the reconciliation leads to APC’s successes in the state at the 2023 elections”, Danmalikin-Gidangoga said. Danmalikin-Gidangoga called on APC stakeholders, members and all supporters in the state to embrace unity, peace and stability for the victory of the party in the state. (NAN)