By Nathan Nwakamma  The Niger Delta Youth Coalition for Peace and Progress (NDYCPP), on Monday applauded the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Umana Okon Umanah, for appointing Mr Emmanuel Audu-Ohwavborua as the Acting Managing Director, Niger Delta  Development Commission (NDDC).  The group noted that the adoption of six of the 10-point request by Niger Delta stakeholders aimed at solving the massive problems in the region within a short period, is heart warming. The commendation is contained in a statement by its President, Mr Tiedor Jude-Olayinka.  The group called on the Management of the NDDC to use Agricultural grants to Cooperative Societies, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), farmers in the region, as a post-flood recovery stimulus to boost rural economy.  Jude-Olayinka said the Agricultural grants to Cooperatives, SMEs and farmers would boost food security, promote entrepreneurial activities to engender economic prosperity at the local community level for the stabilisation of peace and security across the region.  “The NDYCPP urges NDDC to fasttrack the contracting process for water hyacinth control in the region’s waterways to hasten receding of the floods. “We make this passionate appeal to NDDC to look critically into the payment of agricultural grants to cooperatives and SMEs and farmers to boost agriculture and the local economy.  “We also want the Commission to recommence payments for the clearing of water hyacinth on our waterways,” the group stated. NDYCPP commended Umanah for having a listening ear and showing sensitivity by acting on recent demands made by core Niger Delta stakeholders at a meeting held in Port Harcourt.  Describing the Minister’s appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari as appropriate and timely, Jude-Olayinka said the appointment is geared towards positioning the administration’s plan to transform the Niger Delta region. The statement listed some of the demands of the core Niger Delta groups and stakeholders acted upon by the minister to include the sacking of the previous Sole Administrator of NDDC, Mr Effiong Akwa, and the recommencement of work on the Ahoada section of the East/West Road. Others are review of the indiscriminate employments in the NDDC by his predecessor and the Niger Delta Ministry liaising effectively with the National Assembly to fasttrack the release of 2021/22 budget. The youth group also commended the Acting Managing Director NDDC for his efforts in erosion control and embankments in riverine communities. They called on stakeholders in the region and beyond to give holistic support to the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Umanah, to actualise the good plans for the people of the Niger Delta communities. (NAN)