By Muhammad Nasir Alhaji Halliru Kilgori, Chairman, Yabo Local Government Area of Sokoto State on Tuesday said no fewer than 78 major projects were executed by the Gov. Aminu Tambuwal-led administration for the area. Kilgori stated this during an assessment tour of projects and activities of government by journalists in the state.   According to him, the projects executed in the LGA had greatly  improved the peoples well-being and were of great benefits to the development of the area. “ We have truly experienced the real democratic dividends in our domain and we witnessed the giant strides of the state government’s presence across the area.   “This commitment has been turned into reality in spite of the global economic challenges, COVID-19 pandemic and insecurity,” he said. The chairman, while going round with the team of journalists, led by the Secretary of Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) Sokoto State Council, Mr Nasir Bello, explained that the projects have direct benefits to the people.   “These projects included the upgraded general hospital Yabo, provision of befitting teaching and learning environment through expansion and total renovation of both primary and secondary schools across the LGA. ” Others included 1.5 million litres daily semi urban water supply project, rural road networks, district head’s palace and N20,000 disbursed to each of 100 youth as empowerment support, among others, ” Kigori said.   Also speaking, Alhaji Muhammad Maiturare II, the District Head of Yabo appreciated the state government’s commitment in executing legacy projects across the state. Maiturare said that the Government’s dedication to youth empowerment, health, education and employment was of great importance to human capital development. He urged journalists to continue to work in accordance with the ethics and guidelines enshrined in the profession.   In Shagari LGA, Alhaji Aliyu Dantanin, the Chairman, while addressing newsmen  described the projects executed by the present administration in the state as the best ever witnessed for human development. “The government had identified the real sectors needed for human development. “As I am taking to you, the legacy projects executed by the present administration cut across all the 23 LGAs of the state.   “In Shagari, the government is constructing 80 km link road that will ease movement from the LGA to other parts of northern states, which is at 70 per cent level of completion, among many others,” he said.B In Bodinga LGA, Alhaji Abdurra’uf Labbo, the Secretary of the council, explained that the government had executed projects of great value to societal development.   Labbo said the projects comprised electrification projects, construction of a new council secreterat, schools’ renovation and expansion, among others. (NAN)