By Adeyemi Adeleye The NNPP Presidential Candidate, Sen. Rabiu Kwankwaso on Sunday, met with the leadership of the New Afenifere, a  Yoruba Socio-Political group,  to seek support ahead of the 2023 general election. Speaking at the meeting, Kwankwaso promised to run an inclusive governance that would positively touch every part of the country.   The former two-term governor of Kano State,  pledged that his party would salvage the country from all challenges and put it on the track of more progress. “Let me on behalf of the members of our party thank the leadership of the New Afenifere, for finding us worthy of this endorsement.   “I am not surprised that these young men have decided to endorse us because even in Kano, North west and the south, we have young men and women who are supporting this cause. “I believe NNPP is for the young people, world and everybody. So, I want to thank you for the foresight and for doing the right thing.   “I want to assure you that our party will carry each and everyone of you along at  national, zone, state and even at grassroots levels,” he said. Kwankwaso said  the challenges facing the country had to  do  with the kind of leadership the country had got since the return of democratic rule in 1999.   According to him, the nation needs fresh ideas, new thinking to change the status quo for  citizens to enjoy dividends of democracy. “Our party has come out to ensure that every child has access to education, not minding their  economic status.   “I thank you for creating time, and I want to assure you that we will work together in the south west and in Nigeria,” Kwankwaso said. Earlier, the Coordinator of the New Afenifere, Mr Ajibade Adeyeye, said that his group had chosen to identify with the NNPP because of Kwankwaso’s track records.   Adeyeye said that, as a concerned socio political umbrella, the group had decided to take its future in preparing for the upcoming 2023 general elections. “We have called on our elder statesmen not to impose on us anymore but allow us to choose our preferred presidential candidate because we believe we are old enough to make decisions for ourselves and for our future.   “So, on behalf of the New Afenifere, we have decided to forge ahead and endorse  Kwankwaso, together with his running mate, Bishop Isaac Idahosa. “I beseech all Yoruba race, all Afenifere lovers, all those who desire good governance, who truly want true democracy to continue to exist in Nigeria, to join hands together with us,” he said.   He expressed confidence that Kwankwaso would not fail Nigerians if elected. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that in Kwankwaso’s entourage are his running mate,  Idahosa, NNPP’s Founder and  BOT Chairman, Dr Boniface Aniebonam among others. (NAN)