By Rotimi Ijikanmi The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed,  says tourism, culture and the creative industries present  huge potentials to mitigate  economic challenges confronting Nigeria and the world.  The minister stated this on Monday in Lagos at the opening of expert workshop of the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO)’ maiden Global Conference on Linking Tourism, Culture and the Creative Industry.  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that  the three-day conference is being held at the National Theatre where a first major renovation work is being done since it was built over 40 years ago.  “The programme comes at a time that Nigeria and the world over are seeking for industries that can stimulate socio-economic recovery.  “Industries that can alleviate poverty, mitigate the effects of climate change, accelerate job creation and inclusive development and foster international peace and cooperation. “Within these premises, tourism, culture and the creative industries therefore,  present a huge potential to bridge this gap, especially at a time of great economic challenges the world over,” he said.  The minister said experts had  been invited to discuss on the ways to move the industries forward and how political leaders could leverage on the opportunities inherent in the sectors. He charged participants to seize the opportunity of the conference to discover actual and potential investment opportunities and human capacity development , in addition to sharing best practices on how to move the sectors forward. “I welcome you all to this very important programme; the first UNWTO global conference on linking tourism, culture and the creative industries: pathways to recovery and inclusive development. “Today we are witnessing the making of history in two very important ways. “First is the fact that this is the first time the UNWTO would be bringing stakeholders in tourism, culture and the creative industries together at a single forum to deliberate on issues of common interest. “Secondly, this is the first event to be held since the completion of phase one  of the 100-million-dollar  renovation of the iconic National Theatre,” he said.  NAN reports that  the conference started with two experts’ workshops on tourism and culture, as well as  tourism and the creative industries, held simultaneously. There was also a symposium on Innovation and Digitalisation as well as a special appearance of some students who put the Secretary General and the minister to the test with some questions. (NAN)