By Salisu Sani-Idris The African Union (AU) has adopted a new strategy to curb violent excremism, terrorism and unconstitutional change of government on the continent. The AU Commissioner, Political Affairs, Peace and Security, Amb. Bankole Adeoye, made the disclosure in Abuja at the inaugural lesson learning forum on AU Peace Support Operations and the African Stanby Force.   Adeoye said that Africa cannot afford to continue relying on donors to solve all its challenges, hence the need to adopt an African method that best suits the situation. He also urged that African Union must look inward to proffer long lasting solutions to its challenges at all times. ” We must continue to face the reality on our continent. The continent is now awash with all forms of violent excremism, with terrorism complicated further by political transitions.   ” In all these, brave men and women, including children, have paid and continue to pay heavy ultimate prices to ensure that peace, stability and security prevail on our continent,”Adepye said. While giving an account of the various support missions provided by the ECOWAS, the commissioner in charge of Political Affairs, Peace and Security Amb. Abdel Moussa expressed worry over the rising insecurity in some West African states.   Also, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, urged the forum to come up with solution models based on the peculiarities of the continent. He said that Nigeria has always put peace and security in Africa as critical plank of it foreign policy, adding,” since 1960, the country has continued to deploye troops and police officers to several AU and UN peace missions.”   Onyeama said, it was therefore appropriate for the forum to appraise AU efforts in the deployment, management and liquidation of peace support operation taking place in Nigeria. He said that the forum offered excellent opportunities for the AU, the regional economic commission, member states and partners to examine the efficacy of the AU Peace Support Operations interventions.   He said: “Especially, the challenges faced, the techniques used to mitigate those challenges and lessons that have been learned to improve future AU interventions and collaborations with regional groups and member states at large. ” Additionally, the changing nature of the conflicts on the continent over the last couple of decades give imperative to this discussion.”   The forum which is expected to come up with full operational guidelines for the region is supported by the ECOWAS Peace and Security architecture and operations, the European Union and the German Economic Corporation. (NAN)