By Lydia Ngwakwe Unity Bank Plc has partnered with Kitian Training Hub to empower over 300 youths from Oyo with different knowledge and skills to make career advancement. Mr Matthew Obiazikwor, Head, Corporate Communications, Unity Bank Plc, said in a statement on Monday in Lagos.   The statement said that the partnership was a way to promote Sustainable Development Goal eight, for decent work and economic growth. “With the intervention, the bank is providing the support for sponsoring the youth training programme at the Kitian Trainning Hub.   “The fully-funded, “Skill Up” training programme focused on both digital and non-digital skills training, including graphics design, web design, UI/UX design, fashion design, domestic electrical installations, MS Word suite and data analytics. “This partnership further underscores the bank’s ongoing commitment to boosting capacity for the digital economy through strategic digital skills training programmes and empowering the youths to acquire critical skills required to play an active part in the thriving digital economy,’’ it said.   The statement also said that it had improved the content of the Kitian Training Hub “Skill Up” programme, by anchoring training on financial intelligence and business development for the beneficiaries, thereby preparing them for a life of entrepreneurship through the training. Kitian Training Hub is an Ibadan-based career advice and skills acquisition training centre. The statement quoted Dr Opeyemi Ojesina, Unity Bank’s Head of Retail and SME Banking, who anchored the session, as saying that students were exposed to the rudiments of managing and growing Small and Medium Enterprises.   Ojesina expressed satisfaction with the content of the programme which according to him was not only scenario-based learning but also a well packaged delivery style, effective to close the gap between theory and practical. He said that the collaborative initiative would change the mindset of participants to easily take on the next big thing in their lives.   Ojesina said, “the bank recognises that technology and innovation form the bedrock of the workforce that can take on the future, which is why we keep collaborating with relevant institutions that are moving in this direction.’’ He said that the bank’s continued intervention and commitment to the society over the past years had repeatedly shown what the bank stood for.   Mrs Taiwo Oshunniyi, the Chief Executive Officer of Kitian Training Hub, who commended the bank for the partnership, said that the partnership had helped the Hub to meet its objective of closing the widening skill gap within the economy. “We appreciate all our partners especially Unity Bank Plc. The training should fill some unemployment gaps.   “Some of our students picked courses in which they already have an interest, and with the knowledge they will gain here, they will enhance their skills and even provide employment for other people,’’ she said. (NAN)