By Adenike Ayodele The family of a Lagos hotelier, late Alaba Bakare, has urged Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State to order a coroner inquest to ascertain the actual cause of death of their son  in order to get justice. They also urged the governor to order the release of the autopsy report conducted at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) since Jan. 24 for judicial proceedings into the matter.   Father of the deceased, Chief Olufemi Bakare said the request was in accordance with an Aug.23, order made by Justice Adeyinka Adeyemi of a Lagos High Court, Ikeja for a coroner proceedings into the matter in a suit brought against the State Attorney-General, the state Director of Public Prosecution, the Inspector General of Police and four others. Other claimants/applicants are Akinjide and Taiwo Bakare. Bakare, in the petition to the governor dated Nov.14, claimed to have made efforts to get the report of the autopsy through the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Chief Medical examiner, LASUTH  but to no avail.   He added that all his letters, including acknowledged copies, were returned to him. He said the earlier ones written to the governor were also returned by his Chief of Staff without reason. The petitioner alleged a trend of lies by the police which investigated the death of the late Managing Director of Bama Hotels and Suits and content of the legal advice issued by the DPP, Dr Babajide Martins.   The legal advice which is with reference number LJP/HOM/2022/41 dated  April 29, recommended the prosecution of the wife of the deceased, Motunrayo Bakare for the offence of ‘grievous harm’ and the discharge of three  other suspects. He said that this was done despite that many eye witnesses wrote otherwise in their written statement made to the police, including that of the first child of the deceased, late Elizabeth.   He also raised a number of questions against the criminal charge recommended to be brought against the wife of the deceased who in the legal advice allegedly confessed and admitted to using hot iron on the deceased mouth, nose neck and chest. “Is it proper to dump the body of the living who sustained grievous harm into a mortuary by the Nigeria Police detectives?,” he said. Bakare also alleged that the legal advice issued by the DPP was to pervert the course of justice as it dropped criminal charge of murder against the wife of the deceased and others recommended to be discharged and called for a review of the document.   He alleged that the DPP failed to give consideration to a number of statements made to the detectives at the Criminal Investigation Department, (SCID), Yaba and listed these to include the medical report issued by the All Souls Hospital, Agege which was addressed to Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), SCID acknowledged by the Police on February 4, 2022. He said the DPP advice made no reference to the existence of the medical report for mischievous reasons and in which one Dr U.E. Abraham, a medical officer in the hospital stated “patients was brought in dead.   He said such a medical report ought not to be set aside by any public officer as it was forwarded to the DCP for official reasons and not in secrecy in pretense that the Police did not conduct proper investigation into the case. He alleged that the DPP prejudiced his right to justice for not giving consideration to the document. (NAN)