By Emmanuella Anokam The Nigerian Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) says it has not hired staff without due process. It said on Monday in Abuja that the media report to that effect “is false, uninformed, misleading and lacking in fair hearing”.  Dr Orji Ogbonnaya Orji, Executive Secretary,  NEITI made this clarification at the Induction training for its new staff. “We are disappointed that the authors of the story never bother to either check with NEITI to get our comments for fairness and balance.  “However, let me reassure all Nigerians, the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and our global partners that NEITI is certainly aware and quite sensitive to our public ethics and commitments to EITI principles,” he said. He said the induction/training had been designed to introduce the staff to the world of transparency accountability in the management of oil, gas and mining sector through the instrumentalities of NEITI/EITI.  “You are joining our organisation at a time the issues of poor governance, lack of transparency and accountability in the extractive industry are of national and global concerns, especially in Nigeria. “This Induction programme is one of the crucial steps that we have taken to prepare you for the task ahead and integrate you into NEITI’s culture and principles of transparency, integrity and accountability.   “The key message here is that there is a gap in NEITI that you have been recruited to come and fill,” he said. He said to commence the recruitment, the National Stakeholders  Working Group (NSWG) Human Resources Committee which conducted the exercise, reviewed more than 2,000 Curriculum Vitaes in NEITI Database from applicants under NEITI “Leave Application Behind” policy. “This is a policy put in place by NEITI over the years to preserve and provide hope for applicants who seek a career in the organisation,” he said .   He said that the waiver granted to NEITI by Federal Character Commission (FCC) was informed by huge volumes applications the agency received in the course of the recruitment exercise. From this huge number of applications, according to him 166 candidates are shortlisted and invited for interviews. He said that out of these numbers, 145 persons attended, 18 persons were absent and three were disqualified for integrity issues which included failure to show proof of NYSC and differences in age declarations.   “These were followed by candidates assessment, 23 candidates scored 75 per cent and above and made the national merit list, while 36 others that scored between 70 and 74 per cent fell within the general merit. 82 candidates met the minimum score of 65 per cent. “Four candidates who made the minimum score of 65 per cent were considered strictly to address equity in federal character representation,” he said.   He, however, said in the course of the recruitment, NEITI also took into consideration the issues of gender equity and diversity of Nigeria state. In a keynote speech, Mr Olusegun Adekunle, Chairman, NEITI NSWG said upon inauguration in July 2021, it began a programme for the strengthening of the secretariat and spread of the agency to other geopolitical zones.   This, he said was because, the policy direction was required for the successful implementation of NEITI’s  five-year Strategic Plan (2022-2026) developed and approved by its board to drive the the manpower growth plan developed by the secretariat. “The manpower plan specifically identified the urgency for NEITI to inject young graduates with the requisite manpower and creative skills to help drive the newly developed five-year growth and strategic plan.   “The Petroleum Industry Act (PIA)  has set new reform standards and NEITI as a member of the Presidential Steering Committee on PIA implementation is under obligations to respond adequately with adequate manpower and resources,” he explained. He said that the process that produced this class of 2022 had been rigorous, merit-based and in compliance with all laid down procedures of the Federal Government.(NAN)