By Chimezie Godfrey President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the corporate leaders to continue to demonstrate good leadership qualities and strive to act as good role models to the younger generation He made the call in Lagos on Thursday at the opening ceremony of the 2022 annual Institute of Director’s Conference with the theme “Corporate Governance and Digital Transformation: Leading Purposely for Growth and Sustainability”.   Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN represented President Muhammadu Buhari at the occasion according to a statement issued to newsmen on Thursday by Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, Office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. According to the statement Mr. President called on leaders to keep on encouraging younger generation on innovation, capacity building and technological advancement.   Buhari reiterate the commitment of the administration to fighting corruption and ensure public discipline, while promoting good business environment through transparency in procurement and implementing policies that ensure the ease of doing business in Nigeria. “If Nigeria is to come out of its economic challenges, all hands must be on deck to ensure that the policies of the government are implemented in the overall interest of the nation,” he said.    He said it was on this regard that the National Development Plan (NDP) 2021 – 2025 was developed by the government to unlock the country’s potentials in all sectors of the economy for a sustainable, holistic and inclusive national development. The Plan, he said was developed by the different facet of the Private Sector, Sub-national Government, Civil Society Organization (CSO) and facilitated by the Federal Government of Nigeria.   He maintained that one of the major objectives of the NDP was to develop strong and sustainable governance structures, efficient institutions that promote citizen protection, ensure accountability, and drive productivity for sustained growth. Mr. President noted that critical factors in this regard shold include the equitable and efficient service delivery of public institutions.   He said in order to achieve the objectives of the NDP, the private sector has been identified as major drivers of the economy, while the public sector develops the required institutional frameworks and enabling environment. “It is, therefore, pertinent for both private and public sector to continue to collaborate in the overall interest of the nation.   Mr. President maintained that the Government will always be available to provide necessary support and assistance where required, in order to ensure that the Institute achieves its mandate. He commended the Institute for what he called “meaningful contributions and selfless service” of the Institute”.