By Peter AmineThe Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Plateau, Mr Caleb Mutfwang, has urged youths and other people to register and get their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) to elect him. Mutfwang made the plea in Jos on his arrival from Abuja where he received certificate of return as candidate of PDP in Plateau.  The governorship candidate encouraged those without PVC to go to the nearest  Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office and register to participate in the 2023 general elections. “Let’s go back to our various polling units and educate our people on the need to get PVCs and vote for PDP.  “With your votes, PDP will return to power and continue with the infrastructural development of former governor Jonah Jang administration. “We will bring peace and security; we will encourage the establishment of businesses to boost Plateau economy. “I assure you that Plateau will rise again and take its rightful position among states in Nigeria,” he said.  Mutfwang told the crowd that efforts were on to ensure that INEC registration machines were provided in all our wards for people in the rural areas to register. “The presentation of the certificate of return to me as candidate of PDP in Plateau has reaffirmed our determination and commitment to work collectively as a people to reclaim power in 2023.  “We are prepared as a party to go into the 2023 election as one family without backbiting, without hatred or any form of rancour. “We are determined to unite as a party and as Plateau people to rebuild the state for the prosperity of our people. “We are also grateful to the people of Plateau over their relentless effort in ensuring that the PDP return to power in 2023,” he said.  Also, former Plateau Governor, Sen. Jonah Jang, advised Plateau people to be resolute and committed to bring PDP back to power in 2023 for development of the state. Jang urged the youths to conduct themselves in a peaceful and orderly manner and also obtain their PVCs to vote in PDP. (NAN)