By Chimezie Godfrey The Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu Presidential Campaign Organisation has decried the erroneous interpretation of his address in Abeokuta recently. This was contained in a statement issued by the Director of media and communication of the Campaign Organization, Bayo Onanuga and made available to Newsdiaryonline.  Onanuga who expressed dismay over the misinterpretation of Tinubu’s pleas for level playing field in the forthcoming APC presidential primaries, noted that the appeal was part of his efforts to convince the party delegates to vote for him at the primaries. He stressed that Tinubu’s speech in Abeokuta did not demonstrate any disrespect to President Buhari, for whom he has a very high regard.  The Campaign Director made it clear that at no time did Tinubu play any ethnic card or denigrate any ethnic  group, adding that this is out of his character, as attested  in his viral whatsApp statement. He therefore urged the media to avoid over- sensationalising issues of facts and play its constitutional role of informing the electorate to make informed choices.  The statement reads in part:”The attention of the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu Presidential Campaign Organisation has been drawn to the erroneous, misleading and mischievous interpretation of his  address in Abeokuta, capital of Ogun State on Thursday. “It is on record that the leading presidential aspirant in the forthcoming primaries of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu addressed the national delegates of the party in Ogun State , with  Governor Mr.Dapo Abiodun in attendance.  “In his effort to convince the party delegates to vote for him at the primaries, he went down memory lane to provide specific instances when he brought his political clout and strategic skills to assist individuals, groups and tendencies in the party to gain political power. “These factual references are already in the public realm.  “They have been reported and analysed in the media in the last eight years.  “They are therefore, matters of public knowledge.  “While we recognise that recent unexpected interventions in the time table and the heat generated by the proximity of the event might have led to some anxiety, this campaign organisation believes that the main thrust of Asiwaju’s presentation, was that his huge contributions to the formation  and electoral success of the All Progressives Congress should count in his favour as a true party man who desires to be the flag bearer. “There is also no doubt that the fresh conditions proposed by President Muhammadu Buhari  for the consideration of a presidential candidate of the party  made it necessary for Asiwaju to labour to convince the delegates that he fits the bill.  “The campaign was surprised at the way the opposition and Tinubu’s traducers had  turned his statement to give an interpretation Tinubu did not mean and did not say. “At no time did Tinubu play any ethnic card or denigrate any ethnic  group.   That is surely out of his character, as Engineer David Babachir Lawal, attested  in his viral whatsApp statement.  “Tinubu’s speech in Abeokuta did not demonstrate any disrespect to President Buhari, for whom he has a very high regard, and whose re-election campaign he chaired in 2019. “Since the video of the speech he delivered in Yoruba hit the social media, varied interpretations have been given  to the speech, which in the main was about Governor Abiodun, who in the true tradition of Yoruba culture bowed to his leader after Tinubu’s short speech.  “The Tinubu campaign is  not surprised why the opposition in the APC have decided to turn and twist the statement. “The former Lagos governor, a great party man remains the man to beat at the party’s convention on Monday.  “We are least surprised that he is the target of well-calculated and most unkind virulent attacks.  “The campaign organisation hereby appeals to the media to avoid over- sensationalising issues of facts and play its constitutional role of informing the electorate to make informed choices at the presidential primaries.”