By Abbas Bamalli The Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) has organised a sensitisation and evaluation training for its officers and personnel across 34 divisional offices in the Katsina State command. During the training on Friday in Katsina, the facilitator, CSC Abdulkadir Umar said the training on Peace and Conflict Resolution (PCR) was aimed to improve their service delivery.   Umar said the PCR was one of the Key Performance Indicators (KPI) used to measure the performance of the corps by the Ministry of Interior and other international actors. “The training is in line with the Commandant-General’s mantra of rejigging, revitalising, revamping, resuscitating and repositioning the NSCDC for improved service delivery.   The National Headquarters Abuja, organised the sensitisation session on PCR through the adoption of Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism (ADRM).  “The Session is an important measure to keep the personnel of the command abreast of the current trends in ADR as an important non-kinetic tool of conflict resolution.   “Among the key issues discussed include the modus operandi of the PCR across different formations from the National Headquarters down to the desk officers at the divisional offices as they tackle the complexities surrounding conflict resolution. The complexities include issues related to Farmers/Herdsmen conflict, debt recovery, interpersonal conflicts like domestic crisis and land disputes. He equally admonished the participants to collaborate with sister agencies and other stakeholders in conflict resolution.   He said security agencies, traditional authorities, religious leaders, community associations and civil society organizations should deliberate on issues of mutual interests and peaceful coexistence. The State Commandant, Mohammed Sanusi, enjoined the participants to take heed of all the issues being discussed and conduct themselves according to the code of conduct and operational guidelines.   He also welcomed the initiative of CG Ahmed Abubakar Audi in organising such a capacity building programme, to improve the capacity of the Officers and men of the Command. (NAN)