By Chimezie Godfrey The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohamed, hasstressed the need for governments in Africa to invest in the CreativeIndustry as a way of solving youth unemployment and boosting thecreative talent of youths. The Minister, who made the remarks while briefing journalists on thejust-concluded Annual General Meeting of the Afreximbank in Cairo,Egypt, where the Creative Industry featured prominently, said suchsupport should be in form of providing grants for the sector andbuilding Creative Industry infrastructure such as event places,cinemas, internet connectivity and cheap data.   “What we find lacking in the Creative Industry really is thatgovernments across the continent need to do more than what we aredoing now. They need to create infrastructure – we are not justtalking about roads or bridges or airports but Creative IndustryInfrastructure, both hardware and software,” he said. ”We have the population, we have the talents, we need infrastructure,we need government grants,” said Alhaji Mohammed, who was a panellistat a session of the Afreximbank AGM that was dedicated to the CreativeIndustry.   He said with a high population of youths, most of whom are unemployed,the Creative Industry holds great potential for Africa because it’s alimitless and renewable resource capable of creating wealth andemployment. The Minister said the continental bank has floated a $500 millionCreative Africa Nexus (CANEX) Fund designed to boost African CreativeIndustry and the Media, including digital innovators and experts,fashion, film and music.   He said for the Creative Industry to thrive, governments on thecontinent should explore avenues for long term grants, capacitybuilding and provision of infrastructure, adding: ”You cannot grow the CreativeIndustry with debt.” Alhaji Mohammed also said all the available instruments at the momentcannot grow the Creative Industry, and that what is needed is ‘patientmoney’. ”What we need is for venture capital firms to invest more in theCreative Industry. This is because out of the $1 billion venturecapital investment in Nigeria in 2021, just 1 per cent went tothe Creative industry,” he said.   The Minister said with a population of about 52 million youngpeople (between the ages of 18 and 35), who are hugely talented, andthe digital revolution which provides internet access for about 104million people and also with about 33 million Social Media users,Nigeria’s Creative Industry is like a goldmine and, when properlyharnessed, would serve as the country’s new oil. He expressed delight that Nigeria is far ahead of some of its peers onthe continent in appreciating the potential of the Creative Industryand making policies towards enhancing the contribution of the sectorto economic growth.   “I am proud to say that when we were in Cairo, I was able to thump mychest and say that Nigeria is doing the right thing. One example I cited is thecollaboration between the Federal Government and the Central Bank ofNigeria/Bankers’ Committee that will bring a brand new NationalTheatre, which will also have four hubs for music, ICT, fashion andfilm. “We are actually creating a creative and entertainment centre, whichis going to employ many people and stop capital flight because you cannow do the post-production for your film and music right here inNigeria,” the Minister said.   Alhaji Mohammed, who also mentioned the floating of the $50 millionCreative Industry Financial Initiative by the Central Bank, promisedto engage the apex bank to ensure that the fund is accessible to theCreative Industry players. He also harped on the need to improve on the collation, analysis andinterpretation of data on the contribution of the Creative Sector tothe GDP so that policy makers, development partners and other expertscan make a case for favourable policies and funding for the industry.