A director of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Ismaila Adedigba, has received the commendation of the Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, over his recent conferment of the Fellowship of the Nigerian Institute of Management, NIM. Adedigba who is the Director of Research Development at the Commission, has for many years been a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA) and Fellow of the Association of West African Society for Communications and Administration (FSCA).  Professor Danbatta said the elevation of Adedigba is well deserved, and commended his commitment and dedication to the ideals of his profession as well as a remarkable career progression, exemplified in his pioneering contributions to the growth of the Commission.   “No doubt, this is well-deserved elevation into the prestigious fellowship of the Institute, which obviously, was based on your unbroken antecedents to dedication in public service. Therefore, all of us at the Commission felicitate with you on the attainment of this prestigious status at NIM,” he said. Adedigba’s conferment among other fellows, took place at the latest Awards of Fellows and Spouses’ Day Luncheon which took place at the Muson Centre, Onika, Lagos, and featured the decoration of distinguished individual members of the institute who have contributed to the development of the Institute, management of the profession and the civil society at large.  With adequate and relevant previous cognate experiences in audit, finance, consultancy and banking inspection, Adedigba joined the services of the Commission on April 3, 1995 as Head of Internal Audit and has risen through the ranks in the departments of Finance; Zonal Administration; Licensing; Business Development; Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF); Corporate Planning, Strategy and Risk Management Department; Consumer Affairs Bureau; and Policy, Competition and Economic Analysis Department for over two decades before his recent promotion as Director of R&D.  Adedigba holds an MSc. in Business Administration, and BSc. in accounting, and he is also an Associate Member, Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (ACTIN). Adedigba, as a fellow of NIM, will now be required to be involved actively in all programmes of the Institute through the Faculty of Fellows (FoF), where his core competence and the areas of specialization in his profession would be brought to bear and utilised.