By Gabriel Agbeja The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted thunderstorms and rains from Wednesday to Friday across the country. NiMet’s weather outlook released on Tuesday in Abuja predicted thunderstorms over parts of Katsina, Kano, Kaduna, Jigawa, Bauchi, Gombe, Kebbi, Zamfara, Sokoto and Taraba states in the morning hours of Wednesday.   According to it, isolated thunderstorms are expected over parts of Jigawa, Bauchi, Adamawa, Sokoto, Zamfara, Gombe, Taraba, Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, Borno and Yobe later in the day. ”Cloudy skies are anticipated over the North central region with prospects of rains over parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Plateau and Niger  in the morning hours.   ”In the afternoon and evening hours, rains are anticipated over parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Plateau and Niger. “Rains are envisaged over the Inland and Coastal cities of the South in the morning hours. “In the afternoon and evening hours, rains are anticipated over parts of Enugu, Anambra, Ondo, Ekiti, Edo, Delta, Rivers, Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom, Lagos and Cross river state,” NiMet stated.   The agency also forecast cloudy atmosphere over the Northern region on Thursday with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Kebbi, Sokoto, Katsina and Zamfara. NiMet anticipated isolated thunderstorms over parts of Borno, Kebbi, Kano, Adamawa, Kaduna, Taraba, Gombe, Sokoto and Bauchi  later in the day. “Cloudy morning is expected over the North central region with chances of rains over parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Niger and Benue .   “In the afternoon and evening hours, rains are anticipated over parts of Kogi, Niger, Nasarawa, Benue, Plateau and the Federal Capital Territory. “Rains are envisaged over the Inland and Coastal cities of the South in the day. “Prospects of rains are expected over parts of Edo, Delta, Osun, Ondo, Ebonyi, Imo, Ogun, Ondo, Edo, Abia, Bayelsa, Delta, Lagos, Cross River, Rivers and Akwa Ibom during the afternoon and evening period,” the agency said.   The agency envisaged cloudy atmosphere over the Northern region on Friday with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Borno and Adamawa during the morning hours. It predicted thunderstorms over parts of Yobe, Borno, Bauchi, Gombe, Taraba and Jigawa later in the day. “Cloudy morning is envisaged over the North central region with chances of rains over parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Niger and Plateau .   “Later in the day, rains are expected over parts of the Federal Capital Territory, Benue, Niger and Nasarawa . “Rains are envisaged over the inland and coastal cities of the South in the morning hours. “There are prospects of rains over parts of Edo, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Ekiti and the coastal belt during the afternoon and evening period,” it said.   According to NiMet, there are prospects of intermittent rains over the North and North central parts of the country which may give rise to floods, citizens living in the region are advised to take necessary precautions. NiMet also advised emergency management agencies to be at alert. “Temperatures are on the low threshold, the vulnerable group are advised to keep warm.   “Airline operators are advised to get updated weather reports from NiMet for effective planning in their operations,” the agency stated. (NAN)