By Ifeanyi OlannyeThe Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, has urged the Federal Government to understudy Delta education model to end Academic Staff Union of Universities’ (ASUU) strike. The governor’s spokesman made the call on Tuesday while briefing newsmen on the disturbing trends of the lingering ASUU strike, in Asaba.  He said that the ASUU strike had taken its toll on students,  families and the governments, adding that further delay in calling off the strike would have devastating impact on the nation. He said that it would not be out place for the Federal Government to understudy how the Delta education sector was being run and consult  its stakeholders, like it did to address oil theft and the concessioning of Asaba Airports.  According to Olisa, though the ASUU strike has lingered for more than six months, it can however, be addressed within the shortest time only if the Federal Government takes a critical study of how Delta government manages its four universities, polytechnics and colleges of education without issues. He, however, lauded the speed at which the Federal Government was tackling the challenges of oil theft in the Niger Delta region and the award of surveillance contract to an indigene of the state, High Chief Government Ekpemupolo, alias Tompolo.  According to Ifeajika, the Federal Government efforts to end oil theft in the Niger Delta region is swift and commendable. “The team of the Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, was on consultation visit on Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta on ways to tackle the oil theft and facility vandalism in the region.  “The Federal Government honoured the people and the  community in the region by making them part owner and given them visibility in the project. “The outcome of the minister’s visit is the award of the surveillance contract to High Chief Government Ekpemupolo, our brother; this contract is for Niger Delta and the host communities.  “We are, therefore, calling on the Federal Government to draw ground from that as it listened to Gov. Okowa on oil theft challenges to come and understudy the state education sector. ” The study will enable them understand  how the various higher institutions are managed and to apply same to end ASSU strike.”(NAN)