Ahead of the 2023 general election , a pressure group under the auspices of  Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi 2023 Team (CRA) has offered prayers for a peaceful conduct of the election and co-existence of Nigerians .  This is even as the group said  its seeking God’s intervention for the emergence of its preferred presidential aspirant , Minister of Transportation and former Governor of River state, Mr  Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi in the forth coming primarie of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC).  Addressing journalists yesterday shortly after its maiden  prayer session titled: “Unity and Peaceful Coexistence in Nigeria” held in Abuja , national coordinator of the team , Chief Chinedu Mbanaeso (Akwaakwuru) explained that the team was put together to seek God’s face for the peace and unity of Nigeria, successful elections  as well as committing the aspiration of their principal into God’s hands.  Mbaneso who recognised  the potency of prayer in all human endeavour  said that his group decided to start with prayers first because it believed that nothing can be achieved without God’s approval .  The group said it has structures  across the country and has put mechanism in place  to mobilise for the emergence of its prefered candidate (Amaechi) at the election. According to him Nigeria at the moment needs a young dynamic leader who will transform and restore the glory of the country, adding that Amaechi’s candidature will take Nigeria to a greater height.  “Amaechi’s transformation in the transport  and marine sector , especially the railways has proven that he has the right credentials to govern the country. He has the cognitive experience having been a former speaker, governor and minister. He is capable, detribalized and age is on his side” He argued that an Amaechi”s presidency in 2023 will address the alleged political marginalization of the Igbo’s in the South East geo political zone  and the South-south zone.   The CRA team coordinator dismissed insinuiations in certain quarters that their candidate is not loved by many within the All Progressive Congress APC and his home state Rivers state  , insisting that Amacchi has the potentials to clinch the party ticket.