By Florence Onuegbu The Organisers of the annual Bola Tinubu Colloquium on Friday, says the 2022  edition will peruse emerging global development issues. The Chairman of the Media and Publicity Sub-committee, Mr Gbenga Omotoso said in a statement that the colloquium would also examine the importance of good governance for Nigeria to be an influential and respected member of the international community.   The colloquium,  in its 13th edition,  will take place on Tuesday, March 29, at Victoria Island, Lagos, and will be presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari as Chairman, and Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State as the chief host. Omotoso said that Prof. Olufemi Bamiro, former vice chancellor, University of Ibadan, the keynote speaker, was expected to engage on the central theme, ” Pivoting Nigeria into the New World Order: Imperatives of Good Governance.”   He said  the colloquium would also feature a panel session where some of Nigeria’s leading technology entrepreneurs would discuss , ”Technology, Entrepreneurship and the future of work”. According to him, the panel discussion to be moderated by Tomilayo Akanni-Aluko will have Mr Bosun Tijani, Chief Executive Officer of Co-Creation Hub, as the Lead Discussant.   He said that other panelists included Mr Samson Ogbole, Managing Director, Soiless Farms, Temie Giwa-Tubosun, Group Chief Executive, Life Bank, Kikelomo Fola-Ogunniya, Co-founder, Jand2Gidi and Lot Madaki, Chief Executive Officer, Madaki Shoes. Omotoso said that Sen. Bola Tinubu, the man in whose honour the annual event was being organised, remained an extra-ordinary statesman, who had committed himself to making Nigeria one of the most prosperous nations.   ”The theme speaks to the person and values of Asiwaju Tinubu. To celebrate his 70th birthday, this year’s colloquium theme is most appropriate. ”We are talking about an outstanding public servant, who is an advocate of good governance in Nigeria and Africa.   ”He demonstrated this as governor of Lagos state  in eight years, where he laid the solid foundation for the progress and prosperity of the state, that we all talk about today,” he said. (NAN)