By Victor NwachukwuOwerri, March 9, 2022 ( NAN ) Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, has called for the incorporation of youths in governance in order to end the spate of insecurity in the country. Obasanjo made the call in Owerri during a dinner organised by Gov. Hope Uzodimma of Imo to mark the former president’s 85th birthday, according to a statement signed by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Oguwike Nwachuku, and made available to newsmen on Wednesday.  The former President, who thanked Uzodimma for hosting him, urged the governor not to ignore the youths regardless of how their behavior may seem. Obasanjo, however, expressed satisfaction with the steps taken by the governor to ensure a lasting peace in Imo. He admonished the governor to find a lasting solution to the spate of insecurity in the state by engaging those he called the ‘bad boys,’ regardless of who they are.   He advised politicians to resolve all their differences through dialogue and without recourse to acts that would impact negatively on the society. “Hope is your name, it means a lot because life without hope is meaningless. “There are three categories of bad boys: those genuinely frustrated and angry, those who are being sponsored by politicians for political vendetta and those who by nature are criminally minded.“We have to find a solution if insecurity remains a problem in our society. And for the genuinely frustrated and militants, we have to learn to deal with them by talking to them,” Obasanjo said.  Responding, Uzodimma described Obasanjo as “a great pan-Nigerian leader” and said that he was grateful for the opportunity to receive him. “God has already granted you long life. We owe him our prayers always.  ”The Government and people of Imo State are happy you are in our state and our loyalty to you is undiluted because you have paid your dues,” the governor said. A highlight of the dinner was the presentation of a birthday cake to Obasanjo by the governor’s wife, Chioma Uzodimma. (NAN)