The House of Representatives on Wednesday urged the Nigeria Police Force and the National Security Intelligence to fast track investigations of the murder of Miss Oluwabamise Ayanwola. The House said that the security agencies should ensure that the alleged killers of the 22-year-old lady were brought to justice.   She was said to have boarded a BRT bus in Lagos and later found dead on Carter Bridge at Ogogoro Community in Lagos. The resolution followed the adoption of an urgent motion of public importance by Rep. Ndudi Elumelu, the minority leader of the House, at the plenary session in Abuja. The motion was titled: “Rampant cases of violence, incessant rape and ritual killing of our women folks: A call for urgent intervention.”   Elumelu noted that the rising cases of violence, incessant rape and ritual  killings of female Nigerians by criminally minded persons in various parts of the country was worrisome. He said that such incessant attacks were hindering national productivity, adding that it occurred among people in the productive age, who were having to deal with the negative physical and psychological consequences of the vice.   According to him, in the last few weeks, many incidents have occurred that have made headlines and the recent being that of 22-year-old Oluwabamise Ayanmola. He said that her corpse was found on Carter Bridge at Ogogoro Community in Lagos Island nine days after being declared missing by her family with some vital parts allegedly missing.   “Oluwabamise was last seen on the 26th day of Feb. 2022 after boarding a BRT bus number 240257 at about 7.00 p.m. around Chevron bus stop. “There are allegations that the BRT driver earlier confessed of having canal knowledge of late miss Oluwabamise before killing her and harvesting some vital organs.   “Only for the story to change after some influential Nigerians intervened on his behalf,” he said. Elumelu noted that many of such cases were under reported because of the stigma attached to such incidences and the molestation attached to it by the security agents when such reports were made. “Nigerians must realise that this is a fight that demands action from everyone, hence the need to sing with a loud voice that there is no place in our country for those who commit these sort of violence,” he said.   He said this could be achieved by adopting a multi-facet approach that required increase in advocacy and partnership between government, the private sectors and grassroots. The House, however, observed a minute silence in honour of Miss Oluwabamise Ayanwola. (NAN)