By Alex Enebeli People of Oji-River Council Area of Enugu State have reassured Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of their firm support and strict adherence to his decisions ahead of the primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 general elections. They reiterated their earlier stance on Gov. Ugwuanyi’s leadership, stressing that the governor is their leader and that they are solidly behind him all the time.  They expressed gratitude to the governor for the peace and good governance he has entrenched in the council area in particular and Enugu State in general. According to them, a lot of their people have benefited from his administration in terms of political appointments and empowerment programmes.  Speaking when they paid a solidarity visit on Gov. Ugwuanyi at the Government House, Enugu, on Tuesday, the Chairman of Oji River LGA, Mr Chinedu Onyeagba, told Ugwuanyi that they are unanimous in the agreement to support him. He said that they would adhere to his political decisions, regarding the choice of candidates for the State House of Assembly, the House of Representatives, Senate and Governorship seats.  Onyeagba, however, appealed to the governor to allow the emergence of an Oji-River person to represent Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency in the 10th National Assembly. The Chairman reassured the governor that “Oji River is one and PDP Oji-River is one”, adding: “Oji-River people are solidly behind you, come rain, come sun.  “Whenever you call us we will answer you. Wherever you ask us to go, we will go,” he assured him. Lending his voice, the member representing Oji River Constituency, Mr Jeff Mba, told Ugwuanyi that the visit was also to reaffirm their earlier position that “Oji River people have confidence in your leadership and will stand with you.” He said, “When it comes to elections in Oji-River, Greater Awgu, Enugu West Senatorial District and Enugu State, wherever you tell us to go is where we are going. PDP will never lose a single vote in Oji River.  “Your Excellency, what we have come for is very simple; to reaffirm what we have said before that we are not speaking otherwise. “We have not changed our mind and we are still standing by our words; wherever you go is where we will follow you to,” he said. (NAN)