By Emmanuel Mogbede Sen. Abudullahi Adamu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) newly-elected national chairman says there is no room for failure in the party under his chairmanship. Adamu made the declaration on Friday in Abuja after receiving his Certificate of Return from Jigawa’s Gov. Muhammad Abubakar, Chairman, Election and Planning Sub-Committee of the party’s March, 26 national convention.   “We have zero tolerance for failure in this new dispensation of our great party because we have an enormous responsibility ahead. “On the 2023 general elections, we cannot move the way we are to election. “We have a marching order by the leader of this party, President Muhammadu Buhari, we will have to deliver.  “There will be no excuses whatsoever, and we need every hand on deck for this to happen,’’ Adamu who emerged as APC national chairman through consensus said. He commended Gov. Abubakar’s committee for conducting the election in an efficient, honest and equitable manner.   “We would be explicit and we will be talking to you particularly to talk to the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) and through you to the forum’s chairman,’’ he said. Membership of the PGF is exclusively that of APC governors. “We will need your services from time to time and it is my hope that when we get to that point, whoever amongst you we call, will please come and join us to get us over certain situations.   “We will find you as ready partners,’’ Adamu said, adding that he was a team player and was ready to work with the newly-elected National Working Committee (NWC) members. “I am a team player; as much as is possible I want to carry everybody along with me. “But to work with me, not because I’m the best and everything, you have to be loyal, not just to me, but to the party. You have to recognise the authority of the party.   “In all that we do, the interest of the party is paramount,’’ the national chairman stressed. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Adamu until his emergence was the senator representing Nasarawa West at the Senate. Presenting Certificates of Return to the NWC members earlier, Gov. Abubakar commended those who contested the party’s executive offices.  He congratulated Adamu for his emergence as the party’s new national chairman and thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for his guidance and kind words. Gov. Abubakar particularly thanked Buhari for his appeal to party members to embrace consensus which according to him, helped the election committee to do its job smoothly and easily.  He said out of the 78 positions contested for in the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC), consensus was achieved in 66 positions. This, he said, meant that 12 positions were contested. “This demonstrates that the APC is indeed one family with members that will always listen to President Buhari and his call for peace and unity of the party,’’ he stressed.  Abubakar also thanked the contestants for comporting themselves in the most decent manner in the interest and progress of the party, adding that they were its heroes. “Despite their personal interests, they chose to withdraw to allow for consensus so that our party will come out stronger and indeed this was what happened.  “I thank them and I believe they deserve all our commendations and the party will never forget them,’’ Abubakar said. (NAN)