By Deji AbdulwahabNigeria and the Republic of Egypt have agreed to deepen their bilateral cooperation through a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on ways of  developing their arts and crafts sector. The Director- General, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe, said this in a statement  in Abuja on Friday.  Runsewe stated that that the agreement was one of the decisions reached when a delegation from the Republic of Egypt led by Amb. Ihab Ahmed paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja. The Ambassador remarked that he had been following the activities of Otunba Runsewe who had positively projected the image of Nigeria home and abroad within the Culture and Tourism space.  He added that Otunba was assiduously working to transform Nigeria’s rich and diverse cultural  heritage into a viable economy. The envoy, who stated that there was a lot of similarities between both countries in the area of arts and culture, added that the Republic of Egypt was exploring ways of  strongly collaborating with Nigeria through the NCAC to create a platform to showcase both country’s rich cultural heritage.  According to him, the Egyptian Embassy is working on an action plan which will enable Runsewe and his management team visit the Republic of Egypt to see the enormous opportunities in the arts and culture sector which will culminate in the  signing of a MoU for its development. Ahmed solicited the assistance of NCAC to create a window where arts and crafts products in the Egyptian can be exhibited in Nigeria as plans have reached an advanced stage for both countries to synergise in that regard.  He gave assurance of the full participation of his Embassy at this year’s International Arts and Crafts (INAC) Expo coming up in August the year. Responding, Runsewe, who thanked the delegation for the visit  expressed joy that the diplomatic relationship between both countries have witnessed robust growth over the years.  “Nigeria and Egypt share a deep cultural history which has advanced the socio economic development of both countries given their commitment to ECOWAS treaties  and IMF leaving both countries with similar and stronger values.” Runsewe who is also the President of the World Crafts Council, African Region reiterated the need for Nigeria and the Republic of Egypt to work towards harnessing their rich tourism potentials.    He revealed his plans to launch the NIGERIA- EGYPT FRIENDSHIP CLUB during his visit to the ancient city of Egypt to foster growth and deepen diplomatic  ties between the countries. Runsewe used the occasion to invite the Ambassador to the annual Pre- INAC dinner for the diplomatic community coming up in May this year.  He expressed his readiness to provide a World class Media platform during the 2022 International Arts and Crafts (INAC) Expo where all participating countries will have equal opportunity to showcase, network and market their rich cultural strengths to the world. There  was exchange of cultural souvenirs between the director-general and the Egyptian delegation. (NAN)