The Minister of Transportation, Mr Chibuike Amaechi, has urged contractors of the Lekki Deep Seaport Project to speed up work to enable government approve all the necessary processes before next election. Amaechi made this known in a statement on Saturday while inspecting the ongoing construction of the Lekki Deep Seaport Project in Lagos.   He, however,  commended the contractors for the progress of work done so far stating that in less than five months, a lot of civil work had been done. “I want to congratulate you for the very huge progress, by the time we came here, there were no civil works;  it was just pure sand , you have tried.   “I am suggesting that if you work day and night you will go far and complete the work before commissioning. If the President sees it, approval will be easier. ” You need to speed up the work so we can get approval from the government side before election, process of election will be completed in July. “This is because by law, six months to election people start politics and  if you wait till that time, you won’t meet anyone in the office,” he said.   Amaechi, however, said that the port should be automated to avoid all forms of physical contact. Speaking during the tour, the Chief Technical Officer, Lekki Port, Mr Steven Heukelom, explained that construction work on the project was on course and as scheduled.   He noted that dredging and reclamation works had reached 89.93 per cent completion, Quay Wall 85.65 per cent completion, Breakwater 79.66 per cent completion, the landside infrastructure development 67.82 per cent completion.   He added that this brings total works carried out on the project to approximately 80 pee cent completion stage. Heukelom also informed the minister that work had commenced on the marine services jetty, which the NPA would use to carry out their marine services obligation.   He commended the Acting Managing Director, Mohammed Bello-Koko, for the support and partnership in preparing the Port to start operations. Bello-Koko reaffirmed the agency’s readiness to provide marine services for the ports operations.   To this end, he disclosed that NPA was procuring tug boats and other necessary infrastructure for the smooth take-off of the Port. In his remarks, the Chief Operating Officer of Lekki Port, Laurence Smith, reaffirmed the company’s commitment to delivering the project by the fourth quarter of 2022.   He noted that the EPC Contractor, China Habour Engineering LFTZ Enterprise, was working day and night to make this commitment a reality. Smith expressed confidence that the Port, upon completion, would be a world-class port and would become a regional distribution and transhipment hub for the African region.   The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Lekki Port is being developed by Tolaram and China Harbour Engineering Company. The Lagos State Government and NPA are also shareholders in the project company. The Port is scheduled to start port operations by the end of 2022.(NAN)