By Danlami Nmodu A unique healthcare development initiative  has been unveiled by the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas, NLNG as it signed Memorandum of Understanding,MoU,  for Hospital Support Programme (HSP) with six University Teaching Hospitals. It is the first phase of  Projects that will be carried out also in 6 other Teaching Hospitals in Nigeria. The occasion took place at the Benue Plateau Hall of Transcorp Hilton ,Abuja, Monday. Speaking at the event, Managing Director, NLNG/CEO, Dr Philip Mshelbila underlined the importance of social infrastructure to national development.He disclosed that a total of $6million will be expended on 12  Hospital Support Projects across the country. Mshelbila said he was actually personally attached to the Projects  and was glad with NLNG  embarking on them. Aside from being a globally competitive, NLNG has shown through this initiative that it is committed to a better Nigeria, he enthused. He said need analysis was carried out before each intervention was affirmed.The MD assured that NLNG would respect every element of the MoU .He told the Chief Medical Directors at the signing ceremony that they are responsible and accountable for the projects.NLNG, the MD/CEO said  will monitor and at the end it is hoped everyone will be able to look back and be happy.  Speaking  earlier, Deputy MD of NLNG, Eng Sadeeq Mai- Bornu, said traced the history of NLNG’s interventions in healthcare especially with the advent of COVID-19 pandemic.The present Projects have been conceived to boost healthcare in 12 University Teaching Hospitals, he affirmed. The beneficiary centres are spread across the 6 zones, however, the South South enjoys special status.  The intervention  is an evident  actualisation of Public Private  Partnership,PPP  towards  better healthcare. A delegationnfron the Federal Ministry of Health to the MoU signing ceremony was led by Dr Omobolanle Olowu, mni.  A representative of the Chief Medical Directors present at the sign of MoU on HSP phase 1, Prof Bissala Ekele  applauded  the health Ministry. Specifically, he commended the NLNG  for what he called commendable initiative.Ekele  described it as  a challenge to others in the private sector. Indeed, the signing of the MoU   shows clearly that NLNG has upped the ante with regards to Corporate Corporate Social Responsibility in Nigeria. Source: Modus operandum