The Plateau state governor, Simon Lalong, has urged the people of Ganawuri in Plateau state to use culture to solidify peace and progress in the state.Lalong said this on Saturday at the Ewuru Dagarang Festival of the Aten people of Ganawuri, Riyom Local Government, Plateau state. The governor, represented by the Secretary to the Government of Plateau state, Prof. Danladi Atu, said culture is a binding force of the people.  “The Ewuru Dagarang is an important event in this state, I want to urge the people of Ganawuri to use this event and its rich culture to solidify peace and progress in the state. “When you fortify the culture you fortify the people, it is a binding force of the people; use this culture to build peace, prosperity in Plateau and beyond,” he said.   The governor revealed that the government is reeling out social and economic empowerment programmes tio enable it take over 20,000 youths out of the streets. He added that when it is launched, youths in the community should be mobilised to key into the programmes so that the empowerment would not only be economically viable but socially viable, having noticed the gap between the economic and social empowerment in the country.   Dr. Haggai Gutap, in a lecture titled Cultural Heritage and Economic Revival of the Aten people, emphasized that in order to take the people out of poverty, the government needs to employ the agricultural value chain which, he said, would add value to agricultural produce. The Chairman of the Aten Development Association, Prof. Clement Chup, said the Ewuru Dagarang Festival is a reminder of the History and culture of Aten people, deserving a special attention.  Chup appealed to the government at all levels to give attention to the Ewuru Dagarang Festival as it is a major tourist attraction to the state. The Chairman of the occasion, Brig.-Gen. John Temlong, challenged the leadership of the Aten people to ensure that they use their rich resources to the benefit of the people. Highlight of the festival was the bestowing of traditional title on the governor, traditional horse racing, traditional dances and display of Aten cultural dishes, among others. (NAN)