Google  on Friday,  highlighted  seven ways technology  could  help one get back on track to achieve  one’s  New Year Resolutions. Mr Taiwo Kola-Ogunlade,  Communication Officer, Google West Africa,  said in a statement  that  the optimism for fresh opportunities and goals, setting the new year’s resolutions might  be starting to disappear.   Kola-Ogunlade said that if one had  already gone off track , adopting technology could help ensure you achieved your goals. According to him,  for resolutions to be successful, they should follow the SMART principle and be specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and time bound. He said that technology provided the tools for people  to tackle their goals in the smartest way possible.   The communication officer highlighted  seven ways that technology could help us stay  motivated  as , ask for assistance, set reminders, eat healthy,  count calories keep in touch,  meet friends, and learn something  new. Kola-Ogunlade said that others included, fitness  goals,  workout devices and exploring  new destinations.   According to him,  staying motivated, asking  assistance will suggest   how to stay on track with set goals while setting reminders  will help ensure  one remains punctual  throughout  2022. ‘’If your goal for 2022 is to increase your knowledge on a subject matter, learn new interesting things or develop a skill, YouTube videos are a treasure trove of knowledge.   ‘’ There are lots of videos on YouTube that can help you take the initiative to learn without the assistance of anyone. ‘’If you plan to accelerate your digital skills as well, for your business or career, the Google digital skills for Africa programme offers free online training,’’ he said. He, however, said that Google Maps helped beyond just providing navigation, getting alternative routes and real time information about traffic jams.   “You can also search for exciting places such as restaurants, parks, tourist attractions, cultural sites, beaches and natural areas that you will  like to visit.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Google’s mission is to organise the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. (NAN)