Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau has advised the church to ensitise their members on the need to participate in electoral processes. The governor gave the advice at the retirement service of Rev. Dachollom Datiri, the outgoing President of the Church Of Christ In Nations (COCIN) on Sunday at the church headquarters in Jos.   He said their participation would ensure there was no room for people of questionable character to take over leadership. He said preparatory to 2023 political activities, the church should continue to play its role of praying for godly persons to occupy various public offices.   “While we expect the church to maintain its neutrality, it is expected that the church will serve as the moral barometer to highlight some of the negative actions of the political class. “We expect to have peaceful, transparent and credible elections which will only be possible when we come together to put the interest of our state and country above personal considerations,” he said.   He thanked the outgoing COCIN president for playing a great role in the interface between the church and the government in various programmes which had direct impact on Plateau people. He explained that church was instrumental during some of the most difficult moments of insecurity in the state. Lalong thanked the church for its critical role of peace-building, progress and development of the state.   He also prayed for a fruitful tenure for the new president, Rev. Amos Mozho, urging him to find lasting solutions to the suspension of the Karl Kumm University licence owned by the church. “Government will be available to give you all the support you need to resolve the matter and have that institution take off without further delay,” he said.   He urged the new leadership to carry out the work of evangelism, admonition and correction with a greater zeal. He observed that the church should remain a refuge where every segment of society, including the government could run to for solutions in difficult issues. In his sermon, Rev. Stephen Panya, the President of the Evangelical Church Winning All, called for unity among churches irrespective of denominations, to intercede for Plateau and the country.   He urged Nigerians to pray for their leaders for God’s guidance in their discharge of duties. Also speaking at the event, the senator representing Borno South, Sen. Alli Ndume, called for unity from Nigerians for an end to its security challenges. In his remarks, the outgoing COCIN president thanked the state government, Plateau people and the church for the success for his tenure, calling for similar cooperation with his predecessor.(NAN)