It have been a tradition that in every first (1st) Saturday of November of each year, all za’ar (Sayawa) sons and daughters across the world do come back home and celebrate our one of a kind cultural event. Looking down memory lane, The reasons for the yearly celebration was to commemorate and usher in a new year and also to show their gratitude to the gods for a bumper harvest. That is how it has being right from the time of our ancestors and this tradition has been kept alive till date.   In this modern times, rationale behind the Zaar day has been modified to incorporate the showcasing  of our rich cultural heritage to the outside world, to reaffirm our collective resolve as one people and an avenue to socialize and make merry.  I always feel at home whenever I happen to be there even though of recent, a seed of discord have been attempted to be sown amongst the Zaar people. Gradually, the once loving, peaceful and interesting traditional event is turning out to become an avenue for show of force between the various decides .Lhmb za’ar is becoming a socio-political gathering where people in power and authority will come in all their grandeur to reaffirm their dominance over others.   Those present at this year’s occasion will bear witness to the high present of security (military personnel) with armour Carrier vehicle, Gun trucks, machine guns and the constant sporadic unnecessary shooting of live ammunitions into the air in the presence of our revered traditional leaders, the very custodians of our culture without remorse. Despite all these challenges, it is believed that the Zaar nation will make amends and heal its festered wounds. That is why the Zaar day with its intents is needed now, more than ever for it is an avenue for Zaar people to come together and discuss as one people with a view to having a common ground. Prof Chinue Achebe rightly say and I quote.   “A man who calls his kinsmen to a feast does not do so to redeem them from starving. They all have food in their own houses. When we gather in the moonlight at village ground, it is not because of the moon. Every man can see it in his own compound. We come together because it is good for kinsmen to do so. Therefore let us continue with the team spirit and enjoy the power of togetherness. Let’s smile not because we don’t have problems but because we are stronger than the problems.  Alone I can smile but together we can laugh.Alone I can enjoy but together we can celebrate. Alone I can talk but together we can speak. Let us promote things that unite us than things that cause disunity. unity is our Greatest Strength.   On the 19th of November 2022, barely two (2) weeks after the celebration, za’ar residents  under  (ZDA) Bauchi under the able leadership of Comrade Ishaya T Audu in conjunction with various traditional za’ar groups and unions also organized a day for za’ar resident in Bauchi or converge at Harmony high school, Yelwa, Bauchi State to have another experience of the recently concluded Lhmb Zaar back home. The event started well with za’ar stakeholders . Notable among the dignitaries in tendance was Engr Isuwa Galla the  ZDA president world wide among many others. There was cultural display, za’ar dance, and many more events in the program that is interesting. What took the center stage was the brilliant and eloquent speech by the keynote speaker, the immediate past chairman of Bogoro local government, Mr. Iliya Habila (Matawallen Bogoro),(jp). Here is an excerpt culled from the substance-rich and intelligent speech.   He spoke on the title  “THE IMPERATIVES OF UNITY AND PEACE IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF ZAARLAND” he posit that “Peace  cannot be achieved through violence, it can only be attained through understanding “. – Ralph Waldo Emerson. He added that, cultural days are days set aside by respective peoples to mark thanksgiving to God for his protection,  blessings and mercies in the past year. Over the years, following the centralisation of Zaar Cultural festival popularly known as Lhmb Zaar, the organised Zaar communities outside Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro Local Governments, the traditional areas of the Zaar Ethnic Nationalities have also come to institutionalise the celebration of Zaar Day as a way of bringing together all Zaar sons and daughters to make merriment,  exchange ideas and views and brainstorm on contemporary issues within and outside the Zaar Land. He applauded the  Bauchi, especially the present crop of Leaders of the association for sustaining this historic and epoch making event.   He added that, This year’s theme which is “The Imperatives of Peace and Unity to the Development of Zaar Land” is both timely and apt, considering the present socio-political developments in Zaar Land.   He draws the attention of the public to the fact that culture is the holistic way of life of a people- interrelationships,  dressing, food, worship, education, marriage and all other components of social interactions of a people. He elaborated that, Since time immemorial, the Zaar Nation is known for its rich culture and values of peace, unity, hard work  honesty, faithfulness in service, among others. These virtues have made the Zaar man and woman to stand out in all spheres of life which is very true. Infact, These virtues have also continued to be the strenghts of the Zaar in its existence right from the dark days through the period of modernisation and in our contemporary days where we are battling with the encroachment of alien cultures into the Zaar culture. As has been stipulated by sociologists, the only thing permanent in life is change. However, if change does not yield positive results, then that change is not desirable. That is why despite embracing modernity and civilisation, those aspects of culture that are good are still retained by the people.  He added that, In Zaar Land, the culture of peace and unity have been the strong pillars of our progress and development. In fact, in all climes, no development can be achieved in the absence of these two important ingredients. Even where development has been achieved, peace and unity must be sustained. Otherwise, the development achieved would be reversed as can be seen in Nations that engaged in conflicts and wars. Yet peace and unity do not exist in vacuum-there must be deliberate and conscious efforts to have them and sustain them.He also suggested that for peace, unity and development to take place, certain vital things must be achieved:    1. Law and Order: No society can achieve peace, unity and development while its citizens are lawless and in disorder. Whether developed or developing, what keeps all societies together is law and order. Laws are supposed to check the excessive tendencies of individuals,  both leaders and the led.   He added that, beyond all the struggles, we must ensure that we love one another in order to attain the developmental heights we yearn for. As rightly put by Mahatma Gandhi, the famous Indian anti-colonial Nationalist, Civil Rights and Freedom Advocate, “The day the power of love overrules the love of power, the world will know peace.”   Conclusively, the keynote speaker Iliya Habila called on all his dear brothers and sisters that are gathered and having various political, ideological and other differences to make a statement before the year runs out, before politics beclouds our senses of reasoning and we get drunk with it in the next year’s election and be misled into other activities that will further injure our togetherness. God forbid! He believe we as za’ar have the capacity to resolve our differences, unite and forge ahead as a community. Doing otherwise, will portray us as backward and uncivilized before our friends and foes. He ended his keynote remarks by wishing everybody a peaceful, blessed and fruitful celebration and also wish all of us merry Christmas and Happy New Year in advance as well as peaceful elections next year.   On a personal note, the speech of the keynote speaker have beam a searchlight on the root causes of the problems bedeviling the Zaar people as a nations and it is worthy of being internalized by all for in it, lies the path to our redemption, “A STICH IN TIME SAVES NINE”