By Chimezie Godfrey President Muhammadu Buhari has said the provision of infrastructure,particularly housing for low income earners, is one of the pillars ofthe Change Project of the APC Administration. The President, who was represented by the Minister of Information andCulture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said this in Ilorin on Friday at theofficial commissioning of a housing estate in Kwara State, under thePhase One of the National Housing Programme of the Federal Government.   “When our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), sought yourmandate to form the government in 2015, one of the things we promisedwas change. This housing estate is an example of the fulfillment ofthat promise of change,” he said. The President said the progressive ideals of the government seek toachieve one primary objective, which is to improve the humancondition, noting that the housing estate has achieved that in manyways.   “The Micro, Small and Medium size businesses that drive our economywere the ones that won the contracts to build these houses. Not onlydid their successful bids offer an opportunity for these companies andtheir employees, through them we have unleashed a value chain ofeconomic activities that improved the conditions of the ordinaryNigerians,” he said. The President expressed delight at how the housing project improved the means oflivelihood of many Nigerians who benefited from sub-contracts for thesupply of building materials, from sand to cement, roofing andplumbing material to doors and electrical fitting.   He said through the project, the ordinary Nigerians at thebottom of the pyramid, such as artisans, builders, skilled andunskilled workers and food vendors, were not left out of the economicvalue chain. “These are some of the people our country remains committed to movingtowards prosperity and away from poverty, and we are already reachingthem by providing opportunities for employment for those who werehitherto unemployed,” The President said.   He commended the Kwara State Government for providing theland for the project, emphasizing that the gesture was a good exampleof some of the developmental possibilities that inter-governmentalcollaboration can produce. The housing project, which started in 2016, consists of 48 units of 2bedroom bungalows; 20 units of 3 bedroom bungalows; 4 units of 1bedroom and 4 units of 3 bedroom using stabilized earth.   In addition, the scope of work includes the construction of internalroads and drainages, water reticulation and construction of a centralborehole with overhead tanks and the provision of electricity.