…Says Ortom on the right track By Chimezie Godfrey Senator Abba Moro has disassociated himself from media reports on the crises rocking the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP at the national level credited to him. The Senator who is seeking re-election as the PDP candidate for Benue South Senatorial District spoke Monday, December 5th, 2022 at the flag off of his senatorial campaign in Oju, headquarters of Oju local government area of the state.   According to Senator Moro, “I will never assume the duty of the leader of the party in Benue state and I have restrained myself from commenting on the crisis in the PDP, believing that our leaders know the right thing to do at the appropriate time,” he stated. He went on, “I believe that the Governor as the leader of the party, has the capacity to resolve issues within the party in Benue State and even as a leader in the G-5, he has the capacity together with his colleagues to ensure that the right thing is done and all parties to the crisis in PDP do the needful to make sure that we go into 2023 as united forces of PDP to win the election.”   Senator Moro said he never made any comments, either directly or indirectly during the inauguration of his campaign council in Otukpo earlier in the week as alluded to in the news report.  In his words, “In the last inauguration of my campaign council, some persons went to town with a story and I want to quote it  ‘PDP crisis: the call for the ouster of Ayu is absurd- Senator Abba Moro.’ for those of you who attended that event. Did I say anything like that? It was not in my duty to say so.   “I want to say here that, whatever is happening at the national level is left for those people who are playing national politics to resolve the matter. And if they don’t resolve it, I will call you and I will inform you and ask you what direction we will go.” Senator Moro disclosed that he had sponsored 13 bills in the Senate, some of which include, a bill canvassing for the establishment of the North Central Development Commission, rotation of power among political blocs and local government autonomy among others.   Governor Samuel Ortom in his speech at the rally assured the people of Benue South senatorial district that the continuity of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP administration in the state will further work for the improved conditions of the state. Governor Ortom commended the people of Benue South for their commitment to the party and promised that those elected on the platform of the party will continue to do their best to bring development to the state.   “You have done us well, you have given us support and the only thing, we can pay back to you is to ensure that we work to ensure that Benue State is better and that is what we are doing.” He reaffirmed that despite the challenges and paucity of funds, his administration remained committed to meeting its obligations to the people.   The Governor who decried the marginalization of the state  despite his administration’s commitment to development, enjoined the people to vote for PDP candidates whom he noted were committed to the collective good of the state. Senator representing Benue North-East, Dr. Gabriel Suswam in his goodwill message said, he had come to give solidarity to Senator Moro because he “is a grassroots politician and a voice that cannot be ignored in the Senate and politics of Nigeria.”   Deputy Governorship candidate of PDP in the State, Sir John Ngbede who spoke on behalf of the PDP Governorship candidate, Engr Titus Uba noted that the PDP was sending a balanced team to the National Assembly and tasked the people to collect their Permanent Voters Card, PVCs and vote en masse for PDP candidates in the polls. The Acting State Chairman of PDP, Hon Isaac Mffo who presented the party’s flags to candidates of the party in the zone, affirmed that the “PDP is an inclusive political platform” and charged the candidates to carry everyone along in their campaigns.   Earlier, Director of Benue South Senatorial campaigns, Dr. Elijah Adakole stated that with the track record of performance of Senator Moro in the areas of health, infrastructure and education the people of the zone were ready to re-elect him and vote for all PDP candidates. The Chairman of the occasion, Elder Christopher Abah and Chairlady, Mrs. Ene Edache in their separate remarks pledged their readiness to mobilize support for all PDP candidates.