By Abbas Bamalli Alhaji Imrana Jino, the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) Gubernatorial Candidate for Katsina State, says the state is losing N4 billion in revenue every month. He disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Katsina, stressing that it was a great loss to the state.   Jino said that he had worked with the state government as a consultant on vehicle identification, registration and revenue regeneration but resigned recently. “We did that for four years and we were able to register 64,000 vehicles on a database which was never done in the history of the unit.   “The last time we took a proposal to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) on how they could utilise the VAT collection on sales of vehicles,“ he said. According to Jino, in his presentation to the FIRS, he gave them Katsina data of almost 64,000 vehicles and the revenue that was lost which he put at almost N4 billion a month.   He said that the database was handed over to the state government, saying that, “we have given them this proposal but they have never done anything about it. “The information or data could be used in tackling insecurity and other crimes in the societies.   “In any security happening or incident, a vehicular component must be involved. “There is a way that you can track the vehicle that was used in the crime if you have a proper database that the police could use by just picking the number plate “With the number plate of the vehicle, the police can identify the suspects,“ he said.  Jino explained that before joining politics, along with some friends, he set up a company called Easy Geographic Information System (GIS) Ltd which they used to execute jobs. He said GIS was the latest technology being used in developed societies to deliver services and aiding their governments to enhance internally generated revenue.   The PRP gubernatorial candidate said he was in politics to help his people. “If we are elected into office, we are going to use our experiences to generate more revenue for the state and also provide a lasting solution to the lingering security challenges in the state,’’ Jino said. (NAN)