By Ibironke Ariyo The Federal Government has tasked the Federal Road Safety Corps to ensure seamless movement of traffic nationwide before, during and after the Yuletide.  The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Mr Boss Mustapha gave the charge during the FRSC 2022 end of year strategy session, on Wednesday in Abuja.  Mustapha was represented by the Permanent Secretary, General Services, Mr Maurice Mbaeri.  The SGF said that in spite of the tremendous achievements recorded over the years, the war against road crashes was still far from over.  Mustapha therefore said that that the strategy session was critical, to remind FRSC personnel of the need to brace up to the challenges ahead.  He urged all citizens to regard road safety as a collective responsibility at individual, organisation and community levels. “I challenge you to make this years’ experience seamless for commuters especially during the Yuletide.  “To achieve this, you must clearly set your targets and engage other stakeholders, including construction companies, various state governments to deliver on this mandate,’’ he said.  Mustapha assured that the federal government remained committed to the improvement of road transportation sector of the economy. This, he said, was evident in the massive road construction and rehabilitation efforts across the country.  According to him, this effort is aimed at achieving improved road network in Nigeria, ease traffic congestion and improve mobility on the highways.  “Thankfully, the Asaba-Onitsha intractable traffic will be hugely relieved as the Second Niger Bridge is nearing completion in the first quarter of 2023. “Massive highway reconstruction is evident along Lagos-Ibadan, Auchi-Benin, Kaduna-Kano, Enugu-Onitsha, Abuja-Lokoja and other major highways,” he said. Earlier, the FRSC acting Corps Marshal, Dauda Biu, urged all commanders to wake up to their responsibilities and ensure maximum utilisation of human and material resources in their area of operation. This, he said, was to ensure that the end of the year was not only gridlock-free but crash-free in all ramifications. Biu commended the federal government for its support to the corps, including the procurement of ambulances for rescue operations, tow trucks, patrol vehicles and other operational tools. (NAN)