By Mohammed Baba Busu Dr. Emmanuel Akabe, Deputy Governor of Nasarawa State, says that the presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress ( APC), Sen. Bola Tinubu will transform Nigeria, if elected president come 2023.  The deputy governor said this while inaugurating members of Tinubu / Shettima Group Independent Campaign Council ( TSGICC) in Lafia on Thursday.  The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN)reports that no fewer than 250 members of the group were inaugurated.  Represented by Commissioner of Justice,Prof.Abdul-Kareeem Kana,Akabe said Tinubu has the capacity to lead Nigeria,adding the APC candidate would deliver, if elected president.  He said Tinubu tranformed Lagos State as governor and that he would also change Nigeria for good, if elected.  The deputy governor urged members of the group to go to nooks and crannies of the state to mobilise support for Tinubu to succeed in 2023. “History, Excellency, Sen. Tinubu is a man of integrity, competency and a leader with the interest of the masses at his heart.  “Tinubu will consolidate on the achievements of His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari and Nigerians will enjoy more dividends of democracy, if they voted him as President come 2023 ” he said Also speaking, Mr Umar Ibrahim Mohammed, Deputy National Coordinator, TSGICC urged the people of the state and Nigerians to vote for Tinubu and APC in 2023. He said that Tinubu is a man of pedigree and would not disappoint the people of the country, if elected president come 2023. Mohammed assured of his readiness to continue to drum support for Tinubu and APC to come out victorious in 2023. Earlier, Mr Yusuf Omaki, the Nasarawa State Coordinator of the organization, expressed optimism that Tinubu would come out victorious in 2023. He urged the members of the campaign council to continue to educate and sensitise residents on the need to vote Tinubu, Gov .Sule and other APC candidates in 2023. “Tinubu has developed Lagos State and has made some personalities to be where they are today. “Let’s all shun religious politics in order to have competent leaders in the country. “Tinubu will consolidate on the laudable achievements of President Buhari’s government and will provide good governance, when elected President,” he said Omaki assured of the campaign team readiness to continue to mobilise support for Tinubu, Gov. Sule and other APC candidates to succeed come 2023.(NAN)