By Haruna Salami The Senate on Monday resolved to write, for the umpteenth time, Nigeria Incentive-based Risk SharingSystem for Agricultural Lending (NAIRSAL) Management and it Micro Finance Bank to appear before itsAd-hoc Committee on Uneven disbursement of loans/grants/interventions by Nigerian developmentbanks on Thursday, December 5, 2022 or face the wrath of the upper chamber.  The Committee also mandated the management of NIRSAL Micro Finance Bank to come and face thecommittee over allegation of uneven disbursement of loans, grants, interventions among others.  The chairman of the committee, Senator Sani Musa (Niger East) gave the ultimatum when the Ministerof State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Ambassador Mariam Katagum appeared before theCommittee.  Irked by absence of NIRSAL following repeated invitation, Musa said whether the Managing Director isthere or not the management of the agency must appear before the committee on Thursday.  Corroborating the position of the chairman, Senator Matthew Urhoghide (Edo South) said “if we are toreally apportion seriousness to the job we have to do by this committee, it is important for us to bereminded that all the interventions done by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); go and check, agricultureis the area where huge sums of money has been given out to support development.  “All the actions that were done were mediated through NIRSAL that stood in as guarantor for the loansthat were given out. It will be totally out of place if. NIRSAL is not mad to come here. Talk of theinterventions and the distribution that was done in course of trying to elicit development, the area ofagriculture has been very vital. “If you are conversant with what is happening in NIRSAL, and even in Public Accounts Committee, weare equally very worried about operations in NIRSAL. I think wha6we are doing here will really exposetheir activities the more. It will not be surprising if the former MD is on suspension certainly due toinfractions committed. It is the impact of what we are looking for. We can say without any fear thatthere is a whole lot of inequity in the distribution of concessionary loans that were given to Nigeria. So,they have to come”. Meanwhile, Senator Ayo Akinyelure (Ondo Central) tasked the Minister of State on the disbursement ofsurvival funds, saying people who applied for a grant of N3.2million for small scale enterprises, howeverended up with three hundred thousand naira and two hundred of fifty naira for Ondo and Oyo statesrespectively. “We were told at the point of disbursement the state government changed the name of the programmefrom NCares to Ondo cares and Oyo cares. “We were told the state government hijacked and reduced the amount to N300,000 and 250,000 forOndo and Oyo respectively and reduced the number of beneficiaries” Akinyelure said. Chairman of the Ad-hoc Committee, Senator Sani Musa (Niger East) put the decision of the committeethus: “Based on all the contributions from my colleagues, I will make it like a duty on us as an Ad-hocCommittee to write again finally NIRSAL Plc and to write freshly to NIRSAL Micro Finance Bank to appearbefore this committee on Thursday at 11 am. Failure for them to do so, we will not hesitate to invoke allthe constitutional means through the leadership of the Senate to make sure these people do theneedful. They must be accountable to Nigerians”.