…Says Ndokwa nation’s days of suffering are over By Chimezie Godfrey Deputy President of the Senate, and Delta APC gubernatorial candidate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, has assured the people of Ndokwa East local government area of the state that the proposed Federal University of Agriculture will certainly be established in Aboh. Senator Omo-Agege gave the assurance during a campaign rally at Aboh town, in continuation of the APC ward to ward campaigns, Saturday, December 3.   He said the bill proposing the establishment of the federal university of Agriculture, Aboh, has been passed by the Senate and the House of Representatives, awaiting assent by President Muhammadu Buhari. He lamented the neglect of Ndokwa East local government area by the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa led PDP administration and promised to remedy the situation when elected governor.   “All the wickedness of Okowa and his administration will stop on election day. When I see your sufferings, the criminal neglect and pains imposed on you by Okowa, I shed tears. I know how much you contribute to the State and nation’s economy yet when Okowa wants to make decisions on infrastructure development, he neglects Ndokwa East. “In the entire Ndokwa nation there is no higher institution because of his wickedness and hatred for the Ndokwa people. Even when he established three new universities in Delta State, he did not consider the Ndokwa nation.   “Let me assure you that the days of your sufferings are over. We will ensure that the Federal University of Agriculture, and other amenities, are established here. My administration will bring a smile to your faces ,”Omo-Agege said. Earlier, the Ndokwa East local government Chairman of APC, Chief Barr Austin Ogbolu, thanked Senator Omo-Agege for his effort to establish the Federal University of Agriculture, stating that the mammoth crowd at the rally was an expression of the people’s appreciation for the feat, and pledged to reciprocate the gesture at the polls.   Also speaking, the local government APC candidate for the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon Tony Amaechi Ndanenu , said the 2023 general elections “is an opportunity to correct everything wrong that Okowa and PDP have done to us,” and assured of total support for all candidates of the APC at the polls. At Ashaka and Ossisa, Senator Omo-Agege once again thanked the people of Ndokwa East for their contribution to the development of Nigeria through oil and gas production.   “This local government is ours so we have no need to campaign here. Thanks for what you have done, and for what you’re about to do. We know the contributions of Ndokwa East to the economy of Nigeria. This is the time to reject PDP outright. You have done a lot for Nigeria and Delta State. It is time to reap the benefits of your sacrifice,” he said.