By Peter Amine The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Plateau has taken delivery of Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS), an electronic device designed to read Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) and authenticate voters.  Plateau INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner Oliver Agundu announced this on Friday in Jos while declaring open INEC engagement with identified youth groups on the Plateau ahead 2023 general elections.  Agundu said that INEC took delivery of the machines meant for the total number of polling units in Plateau during next year’s general elections on Thursday. “The delivery of the machines signifies the absolute and early preparedness of INEC to conduct the 2023 general elections without hitches as planned by the commission. “It is expected that in the coming days, the state office will carry out performance checks on each of the units received, to ascertain their respective functionality status before they are finally kept securely for usage at the general election next year. “With this delivery, Plateau has joined the league of states that have so far received their share of BVAS which is generally described as a game changer in the evolution of Nigeria’s Electoral system,” he said. He said that the engagement with identified youth grous was imperative because of the sensitive and strategic roles youths play in the success or otherwise of the election. Agundu described the youths as a very important component of the society that could not be ignored. According to him, several thousands of the youth would be engaged to serve as ad-hoc staff for the 2023 general elections. “This programme is targeted at engaging with youth groups on the role of youth in preparation of next year elections; the platform is an opportunity that will be mutually enriching,” he stated. The INEC National Commissioner, Prof. Sani Adams, solicited the support of youths and urged them to keep making positive contributions for the success of the 2023 elections. Adams who was represented by Deputy Director, Civil Society Organisations’ Division INEC Headquarters, Abuja, also said that it was duty and responsibility everyone particularly youth to make sure that we have peaceful elections. Dr Vincent Kabuk of University of Jos in his paper, described youths as vanguard of meaningful change in the society. Kabuk said that no people that mean well for their nation would take folks of that age bracket for granted. “The wave of power dynamics is undoubtedly determined by this group,” he said.(NAN)