By Nathan Nwakamma Odi (Bayelsa) Dec. 28, 2022 (NAN) The Coordinator, Independent Campaign Council for Tinubu-Shettima, Prince Preye Aganaba, on Tuesday says that the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) 2023 Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is inevitable. Aganaba spoke st a forum with his kinsmen at Odi in Bayelsa, while celebrating the yuletide at the Odi Kingdom in Kolokuma-Opokuma Local Government Area. He dismissed any possible runoff, saying Tinubu would win by landslide. The Coordinator, who threw a party for his kinsmen with an Ijaw music maestro, Junior Barrister and his live band to thrill them, recalled that he predicted APC’s victory in 2015. Aganaba said: “The victory of the Presidential Candidate of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is inevitable. The 2023 elections will be won by the APC and that trajectory is inevitable. “The Tinubu/Shettima ticket will sweep the votes at the presidential poll with a landslide victory. This is certain, just like I told most of you here in 2015 that  the APC will win the presidential election.” He said Bayelsa had benefitted from a plethora of projects he had been able to influence in his capacity as a chieftain of the APC. Aganaba, a former senatorial candidate and governorship aspirant,  called on his kinsmen and the entire Bayelsa to identify with and work for the Tinubu-Shettima winning ticket to benefit from more projects after the poll. He said: “Bayelsa State and Kolukuma/Opukuma LGA have enjoyed a plethora of projects I have been able to influence through the years. ” The projects rang from roads, to health centres, schools, shore protection  and many of the life changing projects we have been able to put in place.This was made possible on the platform of the APC. “Vote for the Tinubu/Shettima ticket and I assure you,  there will be more projects done not just for Odi and Kolokuma/ Opukuma LGA, but the entire state.”   Aganaba explained that the ICC had the mandate to deliver the victory of Tinubu/Shettima ticket at the grassroots and urged them to vote the APC at the presidential poll scheduled for in February 2023. Aganaba further attended the events of a former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Tonye Isenah and the Special Adviser, Strategic Communications, Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), Inemotimi Agalapele. (NAN)