By Chimezie Godfrey The Federal Government has called for contributions to the National Digital Skills strategy to reduce the widening gaps in digital literacy and IT Talents in Nigeria. This is contained in a statement signed by the Head, Corporate Affairs and External Relations , National Information Technology Development Agency, NITDA, Hadiza Umar on Thursday at Abuja.   She noted that Digital Literacy and IT Skills has become more indispensable for every global citizen, whether to communicate, find employment, receive comprehensive education, or socialize. She therefore stated that the widening gaps in digital literacy and IT Talents in Nigeria risk creating a digital underclass.   She stated,”To reduce this widening gap and realize the full potential of a digital economy which is aligned with the vision of President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR) to diversify the Nigerian economy, create massive jobs and achieve 95 percent Digital Literacy target of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy developed by the Federal Ministry of Communication and Digital Economy to reposition Nigeria and leverage the vast opportunities of the Digital and Technology Skills Talent “It is against this backdrop that the Honorable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, directs the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) to develop a National Digital Skills Strategy (NDSS). The development of this strategy is envisaged to Identify and Analyze the present Skills Gap, proffer implementable strategies, initiatives, and incentives as drivers to achieve the set vision.   “More-so it will provide clear roadmap for National Digital Skills Strategy to meet global Industry demands, on how Nigeria can leverage its skilled human capital to diversify the economy into a sustainable digital economy.” She added,”NITDA is responsible for developing standards, guidelines, and frameworks for the IT sector in Nigeria as enshrined in section 6 of the NITDA Act 2007. The agency invites the public to contribute and participate in developing the National Digital Skills Strategy (NDSS) with a vision to make Nigeria Africa’s largest Tech-Talent factory.   “Kindly use the link below to participate by providing input or contributing to the policy’s development as an expert/specialist volunteer “Send your Input/Contributions through the volunteer expert form: https://bit.ly/3F4TFNk “For enquiry and information please send an email to academy@nitda.gov.ng .”