By Chimezie Godfrey The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-olu, has called for unity among the sons and daughters of Awori land in Lagos, Ogun, and Oyo States to enable even development and ensure prosperity for all in the kingdom. The Governor made the call during the maiden edition of the Awori Cultural Day, held at the Police College, Ikeja, Lagos, noting that it was a rich and colorful event where culture was infused with modern elegance.   Governor Sanwo-olu, who described the annual festival as an attestation to the economic, historical, and spiritual antecedents of the Awori people, lauded the Central planning committee headed by Prince Adetunji Fadina,  of Awori Tourism Board in collaboration with the Awori Welfare Association of Nigeria (AWAN) for a well-organized event, which according to him has helped immensely in projecting the rich cultural values, heritages and norms of the people and by extension the States as a whole. While assuring the people of  Awori Kingdom more infrastructural development, even into Ogun Corridor, Gov. Sanwo-Olu, however, solicited for more understanding and cooperation for government policies and programmes aimed at ensuring an enduring socio-economic development of the state,  thanking the people of Ogun West for their support and cooperation for the State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun.  Also speaking at the event, the Chairman, Awori Tourism Board, Prince Tunji Fadina while congratulating all Aworis in Lagos, Ogun and Oyo States respectively, enjoined the Aworis to continue to forge ahead and be united to build a strong and progressive Awori Nation, noting that the colorful event was not conceived this year, but part of the tourism development plan. “This is the appointed time and I am honored to be a vessel unto honor to be used in this generation for the glory of my people. It is a call to serve,” he said. Prince Fadina revealed that the Vision 2030 tourism development plan was a well thought document that would reposition Awori Tourism products in the South West, adding that the journey had been challenging but rewarding.  The festival also witnessed the award presentation to some of the illustrious sons of Aworiland including posthumous awards for the fallen heroes. Some of the awardees include Asiwaju Michael Olawale Cole, National President of the Association, Asiwaju Muhammad Olagbaye, Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Engr. Noimot Salako-Oyedele as well as the former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Princess (Mrs) Adejoke Orelope Adefulire also received the award for thier efforts at sustaining the association. Others are the late Chief Ebenezer A.O Gbeleyi, late Professor Lateef Salako, and late Suleiman Opeifa.