By Salisu Sani-Idris The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), has approved the establishment of three new departments and confirmed four acting directors of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCDA) as substantive directors. The Executive Secretary of FCDA, Alhaji Shehu Ahmad, made the announcement at a news conference on Saturday in Abuja.   ” The FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello has approved the confirmation of four acting Directors of the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) as substantive Directors. ” Similarly, the Minister has also approved the creation of three new Departments as well as the appointment of  five new Directors,” he  said.   Ahmad said those whose appointments have been confirmed include; the Director of Public Building, Mr Olugbadebo Ademo and Director, Engineering Services, Mr  Ferdinand Ezeoha. Others are, Director, Department of Urban Regional Planning, Town Planner, Mr Yahaya Abubakar and  Director, Engineering Design and Evaluation, Mr Abdulkadir Tunau.   He said that Mr Celestine Eze was confirmed as the Director of Special Duties in the Office of the Executive Secretary. Similarly, Ahmad explained that substantive Directors were also appointed for the three newly created Departments.   He said those appointed are Aminu Aliyu, Director, Human Resources Management Department, Hauwa Mohammed, Director, Finance and Accounts Department while the new Department of Engineering Infrastructure Rehabilitation has Jatto Abdulkareem as Director. ” Others are Director of Procurement, Rasheed Salimonu while Maryam Ameh is to oversee the Internal Audit Department.”   He said that as part of efforts to ensure that staff enjoy their entitlements even after retirement, Abioye Musibau who retired in Acting capacity as Acting Director in the Department of Urban and Regional Planning, was confirmed as a substantive Director. Ahmad  enjoined the new Directors to live up to the confidence reposed on them by the FCT Administration. (NAN)