By Ijeoma Olorunfemi  The National Space Research and Development Agency (NASRDA) said that the Federal Executive Council’s (FEC)approval of its Satellite Internet Broadband project would provide 90 per cent of Nigerians with affordable Internet.  Dr Felix Ale,Head Media and Corporate Communications said this on Tuesday while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja.  The Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved the Satellite Internet Broadband project of NASRDA under the Regulatory Guidance of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) on November 30.  The project would be concessioned for 15 years,with expected revenue of N28 billion and 10,000 jobs,boost internet penetration and help fight insecurity. The implementation of the project,Ale said would be in partnership with a leading global satellite communication equipment developer, Gilat Satellite Network and Gleo Technology.  Ale said that the project would aid research and development on satellite technology and equipment for the provision of cost-effective satellite broadband service in rural areas of the country.  “The project is basically on the design, finance, building, operation and transfer of a fast, affordable, reliable and high-speed fixed broadband internet based on advanced satellite technology, through Public Private Partnership.  “The project is designed as part of the solution towards meeting Nigeria’s aspiration of providing up to 90 per cent of Nigerians with fast, affordable, reliable, uninterrupted and high-speed fixed broadband internet at a price not more than N390 per Gigabyte by 2025. “The project will increase the fixed broadband penetration for Nigeria from its current abysmal level of 0.2 per cent to a minimum of thirty percent 30 per cent. “This is added to the discounted service price being offered by the project in solving the problem of high cost of infrastructure needed for the provision of broadband by elimimating the capex investment typically needed by customers,”Ale said. He added that the approval of the project was in fulfillment of the Presidential Executive Order No. 5 of 2018 aimed at the promotion of Nigerian content in contracts, science, engineering and Technology as well as the implementation of the National Broadband Plan 2020-2025. He further said that the implementation process would include the deployment of a minimum of 7,000 units of Very-Small-Aperture-Terminal (VSAT’s) all over Nigeria. According to him, the project was necessitated by the interest of the Gilat Satellite Network in commercialisation of some NASRDA research results on the atmospheric effect on radio wave propagation across Nigeria. Ake said: “The results of the researches have assisted Gilat Satellite Network to develop the new generation of communication equipment which addressed the challenges of rain attenuation on radio signals which is a major challenge to microwave satellite communication especially at frequencies above Gigahertz. “The main framework of the proposed partnership is to provide broadband services and cellular backhaul across rural Nigeria. “This is in view of using the proceeds in funding research and development on the challenge of rain attenuation on radio signals while perfecting the attenuation models and standardising the development of communication equipment.” Ale also said that another integral deliverable of the project was the transfer of technology to Nigeria through NASRDA in the area of communication equipment designed and manufactured by Gilat Satellite Network. He added that the nation would benefit the establishment of local communication equipment manufacturing facilities with an assembly line and a communication equipment research centre. Ale said: “This will help in job creation, close technology gaps, increase revenue generation to the nation and enhance Nigeria’s global recognition in the field of communication equipment manufacturing for improved security across Nigeria.”(NAN)