By Ifeanyi Olannye Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta and Vice Presidential Candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),on Friday said God would determine Nigeria’s next President and not the action of G-5 governors. Okowa made the statement in Aboh, when he led Delta PDP campaign train to Ndokwa East and Ndokwa West Local Government Areas of the state.   He expressed confidence that the five governors would put the past behind them and work for the victory of PDP in the 2023 general elections. “God has said it that we, the PDP, will win this election. Many things may be happening now and people may be asking what about the G-5 governors.   “These governors are our brothers; everybody is important. But what God has said will happen, nobody can change it. “So even if some of them decide to support APC, some will still remain with us because there will be division among them.   “The real truth is that I have strong political eyes and I have observed that no matter what they do, PDP will win the forthcoming election, by the grace of God. “It is only the power of God that can help us to win. So, no matter what the G-5 said that they would work with APC or any other party, we will win”,he said.   Okowa said the PDP would bring the desired change in the country and urged Nigerians to vote the party gor progress “We all know that the candidate of APC is not good enough to be our president. “Also we know that Labour Party is not going anywhere and we need to sweet talk the party supporters not to waste their votes.   “Those supporters wishing to vote for Labour Party are only indirectly helping APC and trying to reduce the vote of PDP. “So, please go and plead with Labour Party supporters to return to PDP and join hands with us to change Nigeria for the better.  “We ,the PDP ,are ready to change the so-called previous change. Therefore, everyone should go and get his or her PVC,” he said. Okowa charged the people to embark on house-to-house, market-to-market campaign to convince the people to support PDP’s rescue mission.   He said the ticket of Atiku and Okowa would bring about a united Nigeria and a booming economy driven by the private sector. Okowa added that the PDP would restructure the country and would make money available for states and local governments to embark on projects.   The governorship candidate of the party, Chief Sheriff Oborevwori, said he would complete the ongoing construction of Beneku Bridge and Phase 3 and 4 of Ashaka road if the Okowa administration could not. He described his running mate, Chief Monday Onyeme, as a reliable, competent and very articulate professional, who would bring his many years of experience to bear on the administration.   The State Chairman of the PDP, Chief Kingsley Esiso, who presented flags to candidates, said the party had solutions to all challenges confronting the nation. “I am very happy because APC days are numbered and PDP is coming on a rescue mission to reset Nigeria.   “All over Delta state, our people are happy with the Atiku-Okowa ticket because since the creation of Nigeria no Deltan has ever come close to Aso Rock. “But by the special grace of God and with your support, our dear governor will become the next Vice-President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria”,he said.   Director-General of the State Campaign Council, Chief Funkekeme Solomon, thanked the people for their assurances and urged them to translate their support into massive votes for the PDP on election day. (NAN)