by Dakuku Peterside .  Nigerian politicians are notoriously optimistic. That is a source ofenergy for them, but it also blurs out their  reality. The optimism ofthe average Nigerian politician often conflict with the disillusionmentand pessimism of the average Nigerian. As the country prepares forthe 2023 general elections, politicians will give permutations thatput their candidates and party ahead of others. They believe theirunderstanding of the different constituencies and demographics isnearly unassailable. One constituency that is growing but politicalparties pay little attention to is the community of undecided voters.  In this forthcoming 2023 election, where especially in thepresidential election, there seems to be a three-horse race that haspolarised the nation and forced some even to predict a run-offelection, the importance of undecided voters is evident. All partiesare campaigning not only to galvanize their bases but also to wooundecided, swing, and floating voters to support their sides.Whether undecided voters are receptive to campaigns and howthey end up voting—if they turn out at all—often proves pivotal indeciding elections. Recent polls show that there are high number of registered voterswho are undecided. ANAP foundation commissioned an opinion pollreleased in September 2022 that has this to say about undecidedvoters; “Undecided voters and those who prefer not to reveal theirpreferred candidate add up to a whopping 32% and 15%,respectively”. ANAP’s poll findings are corroborated by the resultsof another poll conducted by Bloomberg News in the same month ofSeptember, which suggest that the percentage of undecided votersis around 17 to 45% depending on whether you add those whorefuse to reveal their candidate of choice or not. Yet other data fromNexTier poll conducted among rural-based voters in 12 statesfurther suggest that 19.8% of voters or one-fifth of voters polled are yet to make up their minds. The reasonable inference to draw fromthese three credible polls is that undecided voters may turn out tobe the underrated decider of the direction the pendulum of the 2023elections will swing. In ordinary parlance and applicable in other climes, undecidedvoters are not sentimentally attached to any political party, have notdecided whom to vote for in the elections or are politically inactive.In the Nigerian context, it means this and more. It includes thosedisillusioned with the current system, structures and actors, who arenot convinced that parties and candidates are in no material waydifferent from the current leaders. This group hardly votes, andwhen they do, they tend to vote for anti-establishment parties orcandidates that offer them hope of changing or overhauling thecurrent political orthodoxy. Also, it includes professionals and first-time voters with no ethnic bias, who prefer toobjectively analyse the country’s situation and choose the candidatethey believe best represents their idea of the ideal. This group arenot bugged down with party affiliations and ethnoreligious bias.They are young, urban, and dynamic. Although not very politicallyastute, they are interested in influencing governance through theirvotes, and any candidate or party that convinces them that theyshare similar values and aspirations wins their votes. Besides, italso includes a nuanced group that is peculiarly Nigerian, and theywait for money, patronage and clientelism as the desideratum andinducement for choosing whom to vote for. Unfortunately, this groupis substantial because of the economic situation in the country andpast experiences with politicians. This divergent categorization of undecided voters makes it verydifficult for campaigners to target them effectively and influencetheir voting decision. It is often difficult to simultaneously narrowcore issues of interest to various undecided voters. Identifying theircore “hunger” tip them towards voting at the election and voting fora particular candidate or party. We are noticing in theelection campaign, especially the presidential election campaigns,that no candidate has made them a core electoral group to target,and we have yet to see any campaign strategy that aims to convertvotes from this political demographic.   Campaigns are less issue-based and often target the electoratebased on ethnic, urban-rural dichotomy or religious sentiments,which heats the polity and fans  the embers of our fault lines as acountry. I am bold to say that such trivializing of campaignmessages because of intemperate languages and innuendos hasalienated more voters, and more are yet to make up their minds onwhom to vote for because they are not adequately informed aboutcandidates’ policy thrust and ideologies to make decisions as towho to vote or not.  What do these undecided voters want?What undecided voters want to make up their minds to participate invoting and decide whom to vote for is simple, depending on what ismaking them undecided. For undecided voters waiting for goodcampaign information on issues facing the country and possiblesolutions from all candidates to make up their minds, they need vitalinformation and a clear roadmap on how candidates intend to tacklechallenges facing the country. Unfortunately, more is required tocover most undecided voters sufficiently. Unfortunately, someundecided voters can only vote for someone because of cleardirection from their political patrons and leaders who decide whomto vote. These leaders either use loyalty to group interest ,monetary enticement or political patronage to influence their choice.This is dangerous for our democracy. The physical manifestation ofthis phenomenon is seen in the vote-buying exercise. And this hasbecome the bane of our elections. When vote buying happens, thevoter has sold their inalienable franchise to a candidate irrespectiveof the candidate’s pedigree, leadership experience, and anunderstanding of the country’s problems and how to solve them.INEC, in collaboration with the federal government and otherstakeholders, to minimize, if not wholly eradicate, vote buying in the2023 elections.  Election is a game of number. The higher the number of votes acandidate wins, the better the candidate’s electoral fortunes.Undecided voters, when converted, give the candidate the extravotes he needs to win the election. This is especially important in atight race where the vote margins for victory are so small. The 2023general elections promise to be a tight race given our politicalrealities, especially the nature and calibre of the presidential candidates of the major political parties. This is the first time in thisdemocratic dispensation that the presidential candidates of thethree major parties are from the major ethnic groups in Nigeria. Thisis also the first time in this dispensation that a Muslim-Muslim ticketemerged. This has made this election, as seen in the campaign sofar, an ethnoreligious contest and candidates are not helpingmatters because they are resorting to ethnicity and religion forpolitical advantages. However, the undecided voters, withsubstantial margins of about 20-30% are still undecided. Anycandidate that gets most of the 30 per cent undecided voter’s votesmay win the election.The importance of undecided votes is evident in recent elections’poor turnout. In the 2015 presidential elections, we had about43.5% turnout, and the 2019 presidential elections had just about34% turnout. Even in the recent off-cycle elections, the turnout isabout 30%. With voter turnout hovering around  30-35%, seriousengagement and mobilization of the undecided  will swing victory toa candidate. Besides, INEC confirms that newly registeredvoters, most of them are political neophytes with no partyaffiliations, are about 9.5 million. This number, when properlycultivated, may swing the votes to a candidate and lead him tovictory at the polls. The sheer size of the undecided and newlyregistered voters mean it must be a gold mine for politicians in thiselection because, when properly harnessed, these votes will makethe difference between winning and losing. We expect  that a significant number of voters will make up theirminds during the campaign. So far, the campaigns could have beenmore impressive and the campaign could have been issue-based.The parties and candidates have at least 12 weeks to effectivelywoo these voters who may influence the outcome of the elections.They must develop real messages that speak to the concerns ofthose dissatisfied with the country’s current state of socio-economicconditions and provide credible alternative policy roadmap. Keyactors seeking votes must build trust by attracting credible voices tocampaign for the parties and candidates, as jesters cannot impressthe public that has suffered serial disappointments. Influencers andcelebrities will help but will not be an alternative to well-thought-outpolicy messages. Grassroots mobilization strategies cannot bereplaced by hysteria, fanfare, street parade or opponents’ abuse. Our politicians can afford to be more serious than they are currentlydoing. The current situation does not inspire much hope.Candidates and parties must make it a priority not to neglectundecided voters. They hold the key to victory in this tight race to Aso rock