The Christmas season in Awka, the capital city of Anambra State, is being kicked into focus by amomentous art exhibition tagged “Clean Slate”.The ever innovative Awka Museum Foundation situated at 261 Zik’s Avenue, opposite PolarisBank, Awka is opening its doors to the public for the Clean Slate group exhibition showcased as“A Sculptural Journey into Mass, Space, Colour and Time.”Clean Slate is an exhibition of sculptures by four bourgeoning sculptors, who are products of theAwka School of Art, lasting from December 17 to 23. A VIP Preview session is slated for December 16 while the unveiling will be done at 12 noon onDecember 17 by HRH Igwe Ositadinma Sunny Nwokedi, Uthoko N’Eze Achalla VI. Clean Slate is a fresh manifestation of aesthetics of the plastic arts that is pluralistic in approach,appearance and meanings.It is an exposition of a select group of artists based in Awka who are comprehensively armedwith a global outlook. Their works reflect contemporary culture and materials, and they are driven to the interpretationof several socio-political issues as observed through the eyes of the artists. The theme “Clean Slate” radically announces the emergence of a fresh style of art out of theAwka environment, with influences from within and beyond.The large collection of metal works from most of the sculptors can be seen to give credence tothis creative reality. The exhibits carry the potency of competing with art pieces from the art capitals of Nigeria likeLagos and Abuja, and even beyond. The exhibition which opens daily from 8am to 5pm from December 17 has the purpose ofshowcasing sculptures for public viewing and for collectors. The captivating sculpture pieces that are the delight of collectors, art enthusiasts, the bourgeoisie,and connoisseurs are enthralling sights to behold and cherish.The featured exhibitors are Moses Njoku O, Nwali Elijah, Fidelis Umahi Stephen, andNwakanma Chiedozie. The personable Director of the Awka Museum Foundation, Barrister Arthur Harris-Eze, said thatthe Exhibition is a crucial part of the end-of-year calendar that includes “Lecture and layingfoundation for our 2022 CSR Project of a 10-foot Okwomma Masquerade at Amikwo Village.” Fidelis Umahi Stephen is a serial Experimental Studio artist with vast interest in Mediaexploration. He started his art career in 2010 at Ebonyi State College of Education, Ikwo inEbonyi State. He then proceeded to the Department of Fine and Applied Arts, Nnamdi AzikiweUniversity, Awka, Anambra State, and graduated in 2017, majoring in Sculpture. He hails fromUburu, Ohaozara LGA, Ebonyi State. Born on November 22, his Media interest spans Metalwelding, Stone Carving, Modelling in Concrete, Fiber Glass, and Installation Arts. Recently, hepicked keen interest in the conservation of the environment through several explorations on bionon-degradable plastics waste which he uses for sculptural productions. He has successfullyhandled numerous art commissions for both Government and individuals within public andprivate spaces in Nigeria. He is happily married.Nwakanma Chiedozie is a multidisciplinary artist even as his training is in sculpture fromNnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, graduating in 2019. He is inspired and influenced by life, his societal background and other master artists. Employing the new/vintage technique ofmaximalism and minimalism, Nwakanma has participated in several shows and workshops. Hehas this Artist Statement: “Medium and concept are bound together, while I combine the impactof African ideology with simple dignity.”Clean Slate exhibition by Awka Museum Foundation is a grand idea whose time has come.