By Rosemary Ogbonnaya President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev. Dr. Yakubu Pam for transforming the commission. Pam was also commended for taking good care of his mother, Late Ngo Zimi Pam who died at the ripe age of 97.   Speaking through the Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen stated this over the weekend in Tahei, Gyel, Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State during the burial service of late Ngo Zimi Pam, the mother of the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev. Dr. Yakubu Pam. The representative of Mr. President said that, Late Ngo Zimi Pam was a great activist who played her own part well while on earth, saying that, “If we want to live well we should take care of our mother.”   Minister of Women Affairs revealed that President Buhari is very proud of the good work Rev. Pam is doing in NCPC, and urged him to keep it up by transforming NCPC better than he met it. It will be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari had earlier sent a condolence letter to Rev. Pam through his Senior Special Assistant on Media & Publicity, Mr. Garba Shehu over the loss of his mother.   His words; “President Muhammadu Buhari joins the Christian community, friends and associates of the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev. Dr. Yakubu Pam in mourning the loss of his mother, Ngo Zimi Pam”. The statement further reads; “ The President believes the testimonies about the Rev. Pam’s mother already reflect her life on earth as a caring mother, devoted Christian and a community leader, who lived sacrificially an honestly”.   In his goodwill message, the chairman of the Governor’s Forum and the Executive Government of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi thanked God for the life of Ngo Zimi Pam. He extolled the good virtues of the late mother of ES whom he said had clearly lived a fulfilled life. Also, the Executive Governor of Plateau state, Rt. Hon. Simon Lalong, in his goodwill message, described Pam as a Peace maker who had been able to bring peace in most troubled communities in plateau state and beyond.While commended the ES for the giant stride achieved in the commission, Lalong said Pam had so far been able to revive NCPC and every Christian now looks forward to going on Pilgrimage to Israel.   In his remarks, the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev. Dr Yakubu Pam, said his mother was a source of strength to him.