By Chimezie Godfrey The Nigerian Women Coalition for Good Governance has endorsed philanthropist, Funmi Ayinke for President come 2023. The Group revealed the endorsement at a World Press Conference tagged,”2023 Presidency & The Place of Nigeria Woman ,” held on Monday in Abuja. The Convener of the Coalition, Etuk Patricia recalled that over the years, it is on record that they have advocated for credible leadership in the country through advocacies across the country in collaboration with other civil society groups and well-meaning Nigerians in that regard. She noted that it is to their credit that they have been able to task the government on policies and initiatives that positively affect the ordinary citizens in the country. Patrioia pointed out that women are a significant stakeholder in the development project of any society. Globally, the issues of women marginalization and low participation in political leadership and decision-making have attracted much attention from stakeholders. She noted that although women and men have different biological and physiological makeup, they may share common features with men regarding educational qualifications, socio-economic status, and occupation, among others, adding that yet, they are marginalized in virtually all spheres of public life. According to her, in many African countries, such as Nigeria, obnoxious social norms, political exclusion, and economic lopsidedness dictate the presence and voice of women in public life. She lamented the undeniable fact that in the annals of the country, women have not had the privilege of leading this country despite their numerous contributions to the sustenance of democracy. “This is not to say women in the country are not qualified to lead the country, but rather the enabling environment has not been created as the history of Nigeria is replete with heroic exploits of women that are pacesetters, energetic, industrious and policy experts in governance and development. “We must admit that the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria does not bar women from leadership positions, including the Office of the President. The Constitution also provides for equal rights of all citizens regardless of their gender. “To this end, we believe that the women of Nigeria deserve a shot at the governance of the country at the highest level; hence this press conference to further drive home this point that by all intent and purposes is in the greater interest of the country. “We must not lose sight of the fact that in Nigeria today, numerous women have distinguished themselves in their various endeavours in the public and private sectors. That women have been classified as amazons for their exploits indicates their resourcefulness, which is a critical attribute needed in addressing the myriads of challenges in the country. “The generality of Nigerians must admit that the time is indeed now for the great women of the country to take a shot at governance at the highest level. As a group, we do not doubt this, and we use this medium to impress on the consciousness of Nigerians that the time is indeed now for women to take up the mantle of leadership. “Consequently, the Nigerian Women Coalition for Good Governance has looked wide and far in consultation and concluded that Ambassador Funmi Ayinke, whose penchant for the country’s development, has been noteworthy. “Her antecedent speaks volumes of a woman who is industrious, energetic and with the requisite experience and qualifications to turn around the fortunes of the country if allowed to lead this country in 2023. “Our endorsement of Ambassador Funmi Ayinke is hinged on the undeniable fact that she has proven herself the amazon of our time through her numerous exploits in her career and philanthropic activities,” she said. Patricia disclosed that Amb. Ayinke’s development model has also elicited commendations from near and far in ways too numerous to mention. According to her, this much has been attributed to her leadership attributes that indicate a woman of substance whose penchant for thinking outside the box is legendary and what is required in addressing the myriads of challenges confronting the country. “Therefore, our firm conviction is that Ambassador Funmi Ayinke is well-positioned to lead the country to greater heights. We, therefore, call on all well-meaning Nigerians to roll out the drums in support of this amazon of our time in her quest to lead this country come 2023. “She is young, experienced, and an entrepreneur of repute who built a conglomerate from scratch by dint of hard work and resilience. Today, we wish to state that Ambassador Funmi Ayinke is the messiah Nigeria is waiting for. It behoves on all and sundry to work assiduously towards the actualization of a dream centred on the country’s collective good. “The Nigerian Women Coalition for Good Governance wishes to inform the generality of the Nigeria people that the time is indeed now for a paradigm shift in governance in the country and Ambassador Funmi Ayinke is that credible choice come 2023,” she stressed. The Nigerian Women Coalition for Good Governance is a civil society group at the vanguard of entrenching good governance in Nigeria. Their activities have been felt across the country through their concerted efforts at holding the government accountable in fulfilling its social contract with the people.