By Chimezie Godfrey The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), has said that continued investment in Digital Innovation will boost the education sector and the economy as a whole. The agency promised to continue it’s effort at supporting and collaborating with all higher institutions of learning across the country.   The NITDA Director-General, Kashifu Inuwa, CCIE, represented by the Director, IT Infrastructure Solutions, Dr. Abdullahi  Gambo Usman, stated this when receiving  the Deputy Vice Chancellor Administration, Federal University Dutsen Ma, Katsina state, Professor Mary Agbo, Thursday, in Abuja. He said, “the Agency will continue to interact and listen to active and vibrant higher institution of learning with a view  of discussing the challenges facing them especially in the Area of IT and Innovation.”   As the prime Agency for e-government implementation, internet governance, and overall IT development in Nigeria, NITDA is poised to actualize its mandate by providing flourishing atmosphere in Digital space. He said it is Important to seek to explore the benefits of innovations and creativity in order to bring about functional education system for the country.   He further emphasized that there is need for mutual understanding  between  stakeholders and the Agency in developing Standards, Capacity building, Research and Development . He added that IT sector played a pivotal role in getting the country’s economy out of recession, and recorded the highest growth rate in Q1 of 2020 as reported by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).   He maintained that, with the positive growth of IT in Nigeria, being the only double digits growth rate sector, which made it to lead in the year 2020 and Q1 of 2021, is what prompted the need to provide support and guidelines in all sectors of development and innovation to Nigerian. Responding to the plea and request from the visiting university, as outlined by the DVC, especially in the area of security challenges in visualisation of the Optic Fiber Cable that links the 2 campuses which where donated to the university by professor Pantami through NCC.   The DG recommended some technologies that can be deployed to ensure security which include ‘autonomous drones’ that can cut back human involvement in these often-dangerous situation. It can also help cut cost while bolstering safety at the same time.  “By using Artificial Intelligence (AI) to interpret satellite images, NITDA experts have long been able to tap into satellite images to help in preventive and response efforts,” he said.   Stating further that with the availability and quality of these images, they increasingly offer an even more valuable resource for security. He explained that, “NITDA always emphasizes on how important it is to know how to use modern technology, not just as an enabler but as a strategic design for your strategy in general which will inspire you to do more.”   NITDA Strategic Roadmap and Action plan (SRAP 2021-2024)is built on seven pillars with their respective goals  and objectives, which are; Developmental regulations, Digital literacy and skills, Digital transformation, Digital innovation and Entrepreneurship, Cyber security, Emerging Technologies and Promotion of indigenous content, he said. Inuwa noted that the Agency’s focus is improving how things are being done using technology and innovation by creating an enabling environment and innovation ecosystem that will allow all universities to key in.   The DVC Administration, Federal University Dutsen Ma, Professor Mary Agbo, in her remarks, noted that the university appreciated the kind gesture and laudable project from the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy for the giant projects executed in the university. She also appreciated  and solicited further support from NITDA in capacity building and training for staff of the CBT centre of the University. Prof Agbo commended NITDA for the various IT intervention deployed across the country towards the growth  and development of IT, which she said plays a critical role for the advancement of the country and also towards the Educational Sector.