By Chimezie Godfrey Nigerians have been advised to be patient with government as it works towards finding lasting solution to the fuel crises in the country. This was an appeal made by the Senior Adviser (Media & Communications) to Minister of State Petroleum Resources, Horatius Egua, to citizens who are going through severe economic hardship resulting from the fuel crises.   Egua who sympathized with the citizenry over the unforeseen hardship, urged to be patient with government as it works towards finding a lasting solution to the crises. He stated,”In the last weeks, Nigerians have grappled with fuel scarcity, not because of the absence of supply of products but due to inspection failure, which allowed adulterated products into the country.   “This is regrettable, and the Federal Government sympathizes with the citizenry over the unforeseen hardship, occasioned by the inevitable scarcity. Let me once again appeal to Nigerians to be patient with government in finding lasting solutions to the crisis. “We appreciate the NNPC for showing so much concern to the plight of Nigerians by coming forward with an apology. This is unprecedented and shows that we on the government side are not afraid to take responsibility.   “The Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority has been out on the streets, filling station by filling station to ensure that the situation normalizes quickly and we are beginning to see the fruits of their efforts.” Egua pointed out that this is a time that calls for collective action to save a situation that was not foreseen.   “It is not a time to trade blames as is customary in Nigeria. It is therefore not a time to query anyone but a time to come together to salvage the plight of the average Nigerian. “After the storm settles there will be time enough to investigate and get to the bottom, so that this does not repeat itself. “Mr. President’s charge to all parties and agencies concerned is to work together to ensure that normalcy returns quickly.   “The Nigerian people deserve the best and President Muhammadu Buhari’s government is determined to set the country on the right path of petroleum products availability and sustainability, as demonstrated in the award of the contracts for the rehabilitation of all our refineries and the acquisition of stake in the Dangote Refinery. “Let us as Nigerians stand shoulder to shoulder in our shared quest for a greater country,” he advised.