Noble Youths Mass Support Association (NYMSA), a Civil Society Organisation (CSO), has called on the Federal Government to quickly address the fuel scarcity in the country to reduce the suffering faced by the masses. The National Coordinator of the group, Mr Godwin Onmonya,  made the call at a news conference held by the association in Gwagwalada on Friday.   Onmonya said that the lingering fuel scarcity had brought untold hardship on Nigerians, as most stations had remained shut or still with long vehicular queues in every filling station. According to him, Nigerians have endured the fuel scarcity crisis, which caused hike in the prices of commodities, transportation and wastage of man-hours spent on queues daily at petrol stations.   “The lingering fuel scarcity has now brought untold hardship on the ordinary Nigerian people who may not be able to hold those in charge responsible. “The fuel scarcity is not limited to Abuja, as millions of Nigerians are still struggling to get fuel at exorbitant prices in different parts of the country.   “Our call is to ensure that President Muhammadu Buhari, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and other stakeholders in the oil sector are compelled to find a lasting solution to this current crisis. “Let them do something urgently to abate the sufferings of Nigerians, not just in Abuja alone, but across the country,” he said. Onmonya, also advised NNPC to ensure proper quality control on any of their Products coming into the country to avert further adulterated products.   He added that it was the duty of leaders to take responsibility and serve the interest of the people, adding that that was what the association were demanding from the NNPC and leaders at all levels. According to him, the recent adulterated fuel brought into the country damaged a lot of vehicles and it is a huge embarrassment to the country as a whole.   He advised that if the situation appear insurmountable, then the NNPC should convene stakeholders meeting for ideas on how to collectively stop this lingering challenge facing Nigerians. He also, urged the NNPC to apply inclusive approach in addressing the fuel challenge in the country for the interest of the masses. (NAN)