The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday, began auditing  of places of detention across the country. The exercise, according to the Executive Secretary of the Commission, Tony Ojukwu, SAN, is to ensure that practices in detention facilities conform to human rights standards in Sokoto for the North West. Others, he said, are Bauchi for the North East,Benue for the North Central, Oyo for South West, Imo for South East ,Edo for South South, and Federal Capital Territory.   Ojukwu, represented by Mr Abdulrahman Yakubu, director, civil and political rights, said  the Police Station Visitors Week (PSVW) project was part of a larger project on ‘Strengthening Police Reforms in Nigeria. ” This marks the beginning of the PSVW in all the affected States, in furtherance of the Commission’s mandate to carry out periodic audit of places of detention across the country. “This is geared towards ensuring that practices in the detention facilities conform to human rights standards.   ” The focus of this exercise is Police Detention Centres. ” However, the National Human Rights Commission also carries out periodic audit of other places of detention, in line with its mandate. ” The outcome of these exercises in the past, have led to far reaching reforms and policies in institutions like the Nigeria Correctional Services and the Nigeria Police Force ” he said.   He said it was funded by MacArthur Foundation and implemented by the commission. He added that it was also in collaboration with the office of the vice president, CLEEN Foundation, Network for Police Reforms (NOPRIN), and the Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Centre (RULAAC). He said the monitors have been sent to one state per geo-political zone, to carry out the audit in some police stations in those states.   Ojukwu added that these monitors have been appropriately trained to go about the assignment with sense of responsibility and diligence. “Having in mind, that the National Human Rights Commission’s mandate is to protect the rights of everyone in Nigeria and this includes persons in detention and even the detaining officers. ” In carrying out the assignment, these trained Visitors are tasked to collect and document information regarding the Police Stations, suspects (detainees).   ” Also, condition of the detention facility, community relations, treatment of detainees, gender integration, as well as the welfare of the detaining authorities. ” Data gathered during the audit will be analysed and published as a report, which will be shared with all Stakeholders, he said. According to him, the aim is to enhance Police accountability, identify good practices and document challenges that may exist.   He added, with a view to making action-oriented recommendations to appropriate authorities, as well as carrying out advocacy for improvement of detention facilities. ” In all these, human rights standards will be the benchmark. ” We are not unaware of the security challenges in our dear country and so the monitors, in their training, have been charged to ensure that they take adequate precaution for a hitch-free exercise.   ” I extend my best wishes to the Inspector-General of Police and the entire Police authority who have over the years acknowledged the role of the Commission as a co-actor with them in the promotion and protection of the rights of everyone in Nigeria. ” Together, we shall continue to work towards strengthening reforms in the Nigeria Police so that someday, we shall have a Police Force where human rights standards are upheld in every aspect of policing” he said. He also stated that the second part of this project would involve training sessions for police personnel.   This, he said would take place within the second and third quarters of this year. It is hoped that some of the issues identified during this audit exercise will form part of the training contents. Ojukwu expressed his appreciation to MacArthur Foundation for supporting the process and expressed my goodwill to other partners in the project, CLEEN Foundation, Network for Police Reforms (NOPRIN), Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Centre (RULAAC).   He also commended the Police Force for cooperating with the Commission towards making the PSVW a success. Ojukwu further urged police to continue the collaboration, which was aimed at ensuring a culture of respect for human rights in Nigeria. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the exercise will end Feb. 25.   Responding, FCT commissioner of police, Sunday Babaji, represented by DCP, Nandel  Gomwalk, Area command, Life Camp, expressed joy on the exercise and plagued their support and cooperation. ” In all the police stations under the command, detainees were given access as stipulated under the law. ” They were notified on their rights to legal representation and other forms of rights that they should have.   ” I will also use this opportunity to bring to the attention of the commission on the need to create a desk where officers whose rights are violated can come for redress” he said. (NAN)