The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Katsina State, says the Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) will commence on Tuesday in 17 frontline Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for the state, Alhaji Jibril Zarewa, said this at a one-day stakeholders’ meeting held on Monday in Katsina.  Zarewa said: “You will kindly recall that the CVR commenced in phases at the end of June, 2021, with the online registration, followed by physical capturing at the INEC state and LGA offices. “At a stage, due to the escalation in the activities of bandits, the Katsina State Government suspended telecommunication network in 17 LGAs and the exercise had to be stopped.  “The commission has now decided on the devolution of the registration to the ward level, albeit on a rotational basis. “There will be two centres in the state office. “One centre at each of INEC offices in the 34 LGAs and two for rotation at the ward level.  “In addition, there will be additional 12 back-ups for LGAs with more than 100,000 registered voters. “In Katsina State, we have 11 LGAs with more than 100,000 of which Katsina LGA has 251,677,  making it eligible to have two back-ups.  “This is why the state has 114 machines for the exercise.” According to the REC, while the suspension lasted, registration of voters continued at the state office and the other 17 LGAs, where telecommunication services were not suspended.  “With the coming of this phase of the exercise, where it will be devolved to ward level on rotational basis, registration will resume in the 17 LGAs with security challenges, simultaneously with rotation, where practicable. “The rotation in the 17 LGAs where registration was not suspended will be done in every ward, based on a timetable, for the other l7 LGAs, the exercise will be based on the security situation in the ward.  “Accordingly, the commission consulted the security agencies on a ward-by-ward basis and came up with the wards where registration is feasible. “The prime concern is the security of all concerned staff, registrants, environment, other innocent people, the security agents, property and electoral materials.  “It is not the intention of the commission to expose anyone to avoidable danger,’’ the state INEC boss said. “Accordingly, the commission has come up with a schedule for the registration with rotation in all the 34 LGAs.”  Zarewa said that in three of the 17 LGAs with security challenges, namely Batsari, Sabuwa and Safana, no registration would be conducted in any ward outside INEC offices. “This is due to the uncertain security situation in those areas,” he further said. (NAN)