By Kingsley Okoye The Senate, on Wednesday at plenary, passed a bill to establish the National Social Security Commission. The bill  sought  to put in place a National Social Security protection funding to take care  of the needs of the unemployed, old-aged and underaged children below 18 years from broken marriages.  Also covered in the bill were survivors resulting from the death of the family’s bread winner. The passage of the bill followed the consideration of a report by the Committee on Establishment and Public Service Matters.  Chairman of the Committee, Sen. Ibrahim Shekarau (NNPP – Kano), in his presentation, said the bill sought  to provide the Legal and Institutional framework for the establishment of the National Social Security Commission for the regulation, management and administration of various social services and benefits to Nigerian citizens. “Ultimately, the bill Seeks to provide a comprehensive Legal and Governance framework for the proper administration and management of all-inclusive, integrated, preventive, promotive and transformative National Social Security regime.  “The bill will provides flexible sustainable periodic social benefits and grants to eligible indigent Nigerian Citizens that are within the scope of the Social Security (Minimum standards) Convention, 1952 (NO 102) of the International Labor Organization (ILO) and particularly Contingencies arising therefrom,” he said. He said the  proposed Social Security Commission under the bill shall provide indigent Nigerians citizens with comprehensive preventive and/or curative Medicare, from sicknesses resulting from any morbid condition of whatever cause.  “Specifically, the Commission when established by the leave of this senate shall provide a well-structured impactful, and sustainable social interventions to eligible unemployed  Nigerians, old-aged Nigerians, underage children below 18 years resulting from broken marriages and survivors  resulting from loss of family’s bread winner,” he said. InThe bill was passed  after a clause-by-clause consideration.(NAN)