….as MAN urges it  to leverage on 3m euro grant By Haruna Salami The Industrial Training Fund (ITF) and other stakeholders in the labour sector have declared that Nigeria  should make the best out of her huge rising population through skilled workforce. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria ( MAN) , specifically tasked ITF to leverage on 3m euro grant in the pipeline to produce more skilled workers in Nigeria . The desire  of ITF and other critical stakeholders in the labour sector to  have  productivity-driven skilled  population came to the fore during public hearing session on a bill seeking for amendment of Industrial Training Fund Act , organised by the Senate Committee on Industries on Tuesday. The bill sponsored by ITF and given legislative acceleration by Senator Saidu Ahmed Alkali  principally seeks to widen the scope of  operations of the Training agency as regards provision of  skills training  in management for technical and entrepreneurial development in the public and private sectors of the economy. In his presentation at the public hearing, the Director General of ITF, Dr. Joseph Ari said the “amendments being sought through this bill  will serve to expand the scope of our operations and  enhance our activities. “In addition, the amendments are especially imperative now that unemployment in Nigeria has been estimated by the National Bureau of Statistics that Unemployment and Underemployment Report of Q4 2020, to be over 23 million Nigerians, despite several surveys indicating the existence of vacancies in several sectors of the national economy that could not be filled because of the lack of requisite skills, which underscores the need for all hands to be on deck to ensure that as many Nigerians as possible are equipped with relevant and contemporary skills. “The amendments are equally pertinent when you consider the recently released 2022 World Population Prospects by the Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs that projected that Nigeria’s population will hit 216 million by November 2022, and 375 million by 2050. “Therefore, if necessary measures are not put into place by empowering this youth bulge with skills for employability and entrepreneurship, the socio-economic problems that we are currently contending with in the country will conceivably escalate. “An amendment of the Act will enable the Fund to expand its infrastructure to be able to accommodate as many Nigerians as possible that are willing to acquire skills for the national growth and development of the country”. Supporting the proposed legislation , the President of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Engineer Mansur Ahmed  represented by Abuja Laision Officer, Adeyemi Folorunsho, said ITF should further be empowered through passage of the proposed bill. According to him , in a recent conference on skills and vocational trainings across the countries in Africa, ITF was proposed to be the flagship of such trainings which are to be facilitated by 3millionEuro grants . Other stakeholders like the Trade Union Congress (TUC ), Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) , Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) , Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) , Nigeria Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME), etc in their separate presentations, threw their weights behind the proposed amendment bill. In his closing remarks , the Chairman of the Committee, Senator Adetokunbo Abiru (Lagos East), said the amendments being sought in the ITF Act were very necessary towards making Nigeria move in tune with global trends as far as globally competitive skills trainings are concerned .