By Chimezie Godfrey The Arewa Consultation Forum (ACF) has cautioned southern politicians to desist from the blackmail and threat against the northern part of the country. In a statement, the Secretary General of the forum, Murtala Aliyu, decried the fact that the southern politicians frustrate all efforts at achieving justice, equity and fair-play in anything and every thing in which the north has superiority or advantage.  He noted that the southern politicians have issued ultimatum against their northern counterparts with threats of secession, restructuring, or break up of the country if a president of the northern extraction is elected come 2023. He therefore cautioned that those engaged in this act should desist, as the north will no longer give in to such blackmail or intimidation.  The statement reads in part:”A long running political riddle that has continued to frustrate all efforts at achieving ‘justice, equity and fair-play’ is this: anything and every thing in which the North has superiority or advantage or strength is, in the opinion of many Southerners, fake or contrived or speculative and therefore unacceptable. “These Southerners contest the facts that the North has 78% of the landmass of Nigeria. They refuse to accept that the North has over 55% of the population of Nigeria. They won’t concede that the voting population in the Northwest region of the North alone is bigger than those of the Southeast & South-south combined. They will never acknowledge the fact that all the beef, all the tomatoes, the onions, the beans, etc. consumed in the South, is produced in the North. They concede nothing.  “On the  contrary, they say the North brings nothing to the table and is entitled to nothing. Not to an equitable share of national revenues, not to a fair share of employment in the public services or to admissions into public schools. If the law says, for  example, that election outcomes must be based on one man one vote, they quickly dismiss it as an ‘imposition’ by Northerners. They contest every fact, every principle including those that formed the basis of our union such as our federation, our system of administration, our⁷ democracy, etc.  “And as we inch up towards the 2023 elections, it comes as no surprise that some Southern politicians are giving their Northern counterparts an ultimatum which roughly translates thus: elect no one from the North as President or we will break up the country!  “But what are the facts? Nigeria’s Fourth  Democratic Republic is about 22 years old. Of this, Northerners ruled for only ten years.  But in-spite of this, some southern politicians are furious, issuing dare warnings against the election of any Northerner as president. “It has to be stated clearly and for the avoidance of any doubt that the North is not and has never been opposed to the election of any Nigerian from any part of the country as President. Anything that will be done to achieve that however must accord with the law and  democratic principles.   “Gone are the days when Northerners felt  blackmailed and intimidated by threats of re-structuring, secession, break up or  break down of Nigeria. The North does not seek to dominate any part of the country but will not submit itself to be relegated to serfdom. Those issuing ultimatums are to be pitied knowing that they know not what they are doing. They own no patent nor monopoly of the art or science of ultimatums. Enough of the blackmail.”