By Rosemary Ogbonnaya Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board,JAMB, has warned the general public, particularly candidates in the just- concluded 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination,UTME, to be wary of the guile and other unsavoury activities of fraudsters who are making false claims of errors in the scoring of candidates in the 2022 UTME. JAMB spoke through its Head, Public Affairs and Protocol, JAMB, Dr.Fabian Benjamin in Abuja on Tuesday. The Board maintained that the UTME is a computer-based test that are scored electronically with no human mediation whatsoever.  According to JAMB, the unfounded rumours making the rounds are nothing but the products of the deceitful brains of the masterminds of these baseless imputations. It reiterated that there is no room for errors in its electronic scoring system nor does it plan to organise another UTME. “This clarification became necessary following reports of a purported rescheduling of the UTME from a section of the social media citing phantom errors in the computer scoring system and a purported apology from JAMB to the effect that another UTME would be organised,” said JAMB.   The Board stated that the report is not only false, mischievous, but also misleading and crafted out of the frustration and inability of these fraudsters to dupe unsuspecting candidates owing to the series of innovative strategies the Board had put in place to protect candidates. It would be recalled that the Board had envisaged some of these inglorious strategies of these nefarious individuals and had sounded a note of warning to the candidates and the general public alike so as to preclude the possibilities of them falling victims of the evil machinations of fraudsters.   The Board, however, advised the general public to disregard this items of news as it does not emanate from JAMB nor has it authorise any individual or group been to make such a pronouncement on its behalf. Also, JAMB, advised candidates to avail themselves of its user-friendly advisories on assessing their 2022 UTME results and other processes through periodic visits to www.jamb.gov.ng.