Kaduna State Government has made four strategic appointments in its bid to fill certain vacancies and invigorate the machinery of governance, as the administration inches to the final circle of its term. The new appointments include Statistician General, the Executive Secretary of Kaduna State Pilgrims Agency, Special Adviser, Political and Acting Director General of Kaduna State Schools Quality Assurance Authority. A statement issued by Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Mr Muyiwa Adekeye, listed Dr Baba Bukar Alhaji as the new Statistician General, Dr Yusuf Yakubu Arrigasiyyu, as Executive Secretary of Kaduna State Pilgrims Agency and Alhaji Abdullahi Muhammad Ibrahim as Special Adviser, Political Matters while Adama Abdullahi Wada is the new Acting Director-General, Kaduna State Schools Quality Assurance Authority  The statement said that ‘’until his appointment, the new Statistician-General was a lecturer at the Department of Mathematical Sciences, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna. He holds a Ph.D. in Statistics from the University of Essex.’’  According to Adekeye, Dr Alhaji earned his first degree in Statistics from the University of Maiduguri and a master’s from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.  The new Special Adviser on Political Maters is a former chairman of the Interim Management Committee of Birnin Gwari Local Government Council, the statement added.  The Special Adviser on Media and Communication also said that new Executive Secretary of Pilgrim Agency was most recently the Director, Policy and Transparency Division, at Kaduna Polytechnic. He added that Arrigasiyyu is also a former dean of the School of Health Sciences and Technology at Kaduna Polytechnic and was provost of the Shehu Idris College of Health Sciences and Technology in Makarfi. The statement also said Arrigasiyyu ‘’has for 15 years been a member of the National Hajj Monitoring and Support Team, where he monitored Hajj activities and recommended process improvements. He holds a doctorate in Community Health.’’  Adekeye further said the new Director General of Quality Assurance ‘’started her teaching career in 1991 and has worked as an academic administrator at various government secondary schools.  Hajiya Adama has also been a supervisor and examiner for the West African Examination Council, the statement said, adding that ‘’she worked as a quality assurance evaluator at the Chikun Local Government Education Quality Assurance Office.’’