The Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Security Committee has introduced a Code of Conduct barring members of the Vigilante groups operating in the various communities in the Territory from using prohibited firearms. This was disclosed in a statement Sunday signed by Muhammad Hazat Sule, Director, Information & Communication, FCT.  Sule further said in the newly established Code of Conduct for members of the Vigilante group,the security committee also prohibited the vigilante from carrying out any operation without the presence of the police or the express approval of the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), in their respective jurisdiction. However, members of the Vigilante are permitted to possess and use weapons for self-defense or other lawful purposes as allowed by the DPO. These were some of the decisions reached by the FCT Security Committee at its 11th meeting, presided over by the Minister, Federal Capital Territory, Mallam Muhammad Musa Bello, held Thursday, in Gwarinpa I District, Abuja. Similarly, the new approved code required that any member of the group, who recovers a hazardous weapon from a criminal suspect is expected to keep a detailed account and report to the police for further investigation. The Committee permitted the vigilante group to make arrests of anyone, who violates the laws of the land as allowed under the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015. It agreed that any Community desirous of establishing a Vigilante group should apply and obtain the approval of the DPO within the locality. On the recruitment of members of the vigilante group, the FCT Security Committee, which is the highest decision-making body on security matters resolved that the process must be supervised by the Community Accountability Forum (CAF) /Security Committee of the community concerned. The CAF is to ensure a fair representation of all segments of society and avoid religious, political, and ethnic persuasion. The meeting also agreed that all those to be recruited must be properly profiled by the community leaders and Security agencies. The FCT Administration encourages communities to form vigilante groups to complement the work of security agencies, especially in gathering intelligence and boosting the fight against criminals. .