By Yinusa IsholaSome All Progressives Congress (APC) governors have commended Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti for his selfless contributions toward the development of his state and the country in general. Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State and his Borno counterpart, Prof. Babagana Zulum, gave the commendations at a valedictory lecture marking the fourth anniversary of Fayemi’s administration and inauguration of the incoming administration in the state.   The governors expressed optimism that Fayemi still had greater roles to play as an important player to steer the country to the path of true federalism. Bagudu said Fayemi’s contributions at both the Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) as well as the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) could not be over-emphasised.   He noted that Fayemi played a leading role in the PGF and the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) which he chaired, to the admiration of his brother-governors. “Gov. Fayemi is unmistakably committed to the Nigerian dream. He believes that governance should be used to chart a new frontier for the development of our country and the benefit of our people.   “I don’t think President Muhammadu Buhari will allow him (Fayemi) to rest. Just last week, I knew the kind of comments President Buhari made about him. “We are lucky that we have scholar-leaders like JKF (Fayemi) who tell the world that Nigeria is an investment destination,” he said.   Gov. Zulum, on his part, described Fayemi as an “unconventional leader, team player and an unrepentant believer in a better Nigeria.” He praised Fayemi for being a great thinker who chose to organise a forum to reflect on issues affecting the polity, like politics, governance and economy, rather than throwing ‘Owambe’ party.   Zulum also lauded Fayemi for initiating programmes, such as Youth in Commercial Agriculture Development (YCAD) which, he said, had attracted youths to agriculture in Ekiti. “Such legacies are better than naming structures after oneself,” he said. The governor also used the occasion to advise the governor-elect, Mr Biodun Oyebanji, to emulate the cordial relationship between him (Zulum) and his predecessor, Sen. Kashim Shettima when he (Oyebanji) eventually took over the mantle of leadership in the state.   Zulum noted that his relationship with his predecessor was built on mutual trust, humility and sacrifice. “It is not easy to preside over a (Nigeria Governors’) Forum that has a Zulum and an El-Rufai. “We are proud of the way JKF presided over NGF. He is humble and straightforward. His personality and integrity are not in doubt.   “Oyebanji, I hope you emulate the cordial relationship between me and my predecessor, which was built on mutual trust and humility and, above all, sacrifice,” he said. A former APC National Chairman, Chief Odigie-Oyegun, in his remarks, recalled that Fayemi and himself became close while they were in trenches as members of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO).   He commended Fayemi for assembling a team of crack technocrats who put together a team that produced policy papers which communicated the party’s purpose to Nigerians. Contrubuting, Speaker of Ekiti House of Assembly, Mr Funminiyi Afuye, lauded Fayemi for respecting the legislative institution and granting the assembly its well- deserved autonomy.