The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has unveiled a programme of events to commemorate the first anniversary of the launch of Africa’s First Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) tagged the “eNaira”, which was formally launched by President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Aso Villa on Monday 25 October 2021.  Osita Nwanisobi, Director, Corporate Communications who disclosed this in a statement Friday, noted  that the implementation of the eNaira has put Nigeria in the global spotlight as one of the pioneers to deploy a CBDC into live production. This has continued to attract the interest of global stakeholders such as the IMF, World Bank, other Central Banks, and the CBDC community. As part of activities lined up to mark the first anniversary of the eNaira, the Central Bank of Nigerian is holding a one-day workshop themed “Leveraging Innovation for Inclusive Growth and Development: The eNaira Advantage” scheduled to take place on Tuesday October 25, 2022 at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. The objectives of the workshop include the following: i.            review the eNaira implementation journey, one year after; ii.           to drive further adoption of the eNaira through public engagement; and iii.         to facilitate global policy dialogue on CBDC to promote peer learning and benchmarking The event will be hosted by the Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, while the Ministers of Communication and Digital Economy and Humanitarian Affairs will be speakers at the event. Other key participants at the event include the Chief Executives of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System Plc (NIBSS), the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), and the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), members of the Bankers’ Committee, the academia, financial services, and telecommunications regulators, merchants, agents, cooperative groups and technical experts, the entertainment industry; amongst others. The event will also feature a policy round-table discussion on “Effective Collaboration for National Development (Infrastructure, Interoperability, regulation)” and a panel discussion on “eNaira Adoption for economic growth” The CBN, therefore, encourages Nigerians to be part of the celebration which shall be streamed live on the Bank’s social media channels as well as those dedicated to the eNaira.  The statement people to visit the website to register and participate in the workshop: www.enaira365days.com