By Ibrahim Bello Kebbi governor, Alhaji Atiku Bagudu, says his administration has set up a committee to work out modalities for the setting of retirement age of teachers at 65 years. Bagudu made the declaration in Birnin Kebbi on Monday when he declared open the National Executive Committee meeting of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC).   He said the state government would look into the possibility of paying leave grants to workers on or before Oct. 31. Bagudu acknowledged the robust mutual relationship between his administration and labour unions in the state.   According to the governor, the state government is also enjoying robust support from all the civil service in the state. He also acknowledged the invaluable support and cooperation of labour unions in the state since his assumption of office. Bagudu recalled that the state government had promulgated the Public Procurement Law and abrogated the state’s tenders board.   “This action has reduced the enormous power of the governor and his deputy and devolved same to commissioners and heads of ministries, departments and agencies,’’ he said. Bagudu appreciated the tireless efforts of the NLC President, Mr Ayuba Wabba, describing him as a diligent and dedicated patriot.   He commended the NLC for honouring the state by holding the meeting in Kebbi. Bagudu also commended labour leaders for their solidarity with one of their own, the APC governorship candidate, Dr Nasiru Idris. Earlier, Wabba acknowledged the hospitality of the state and its people and described Bagudu as level-headed person.   “Bagudu takes workers of the state as his partners and colleagues, and this is why monumental achievements are recorded in the state,’’ he said. In his opening address, the chairman of the NLC in Kebbi, Alhaji Umar Hassan-Halidu, commended the leadership of NLC for finding Kebbi suitable for the NCW meeting.   He also appreciated Bagudu for doing so much for workers in the state, describing him as “workers-friendly governor’’. “We commend the governor for being among the first to approve the payment of N30,000 national minimum wage and payment of backlog of retired civil servants’ gratuities.   “We also commend him for prompt payment of monthly salaries and the construction of a housing estate for workers,’’ he said. (NAN)