By Gabriel Agbeja The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted thunderstorms and sunshine from Monday to Wednesday across the country. NiMet`s weather outlook released on Sunday in Abuja predicted sunny skies over the northern region on Monday with haziness over parts of Katsina, Yobe and Jigawa in the morning hours.   It also forecast isolated thunderstorms over parts of Southern Taraba later in the day. “Sunny skies with patches of clouds are expected over the North central region in the morning hours with slim chances of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Kogi, Kwara and Benue later in the day. “Cloudy conditions are expected over the inland cities of the South with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Enugu, Ebonyi, Imo, Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers, and Akwa Ibom in the morning hours.   “ Later in the day, thunderstorms are expected over parts of Edo, Enugu, Imo, Ebonyi, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Ogun, Delta, Rivers, Lagos, Cross River, Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa, “ it said. According to NiMet, sunny and hazy atmosphere is expected on Tuesday over parts of Katisna, Yobe and Jigawa with chances of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Taraba in the morning hours. The agency envisaged sunny and hazy conditions over the entire Northern states later in the day.   “Cloudy conditions with intervals of sunshine are expected over the North central region in the morning hours with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Kogi and Benue in the afternoon and evening hours. “The inland and coastal cities of the South should be predominantly cloudy with prospects of thunderstorms over parts of Ebonyi, Enugu, Cross River, Rivers and Akwa Ibom in the morning hours.   “ However, thunderstorms are expected over parts of Ebonyi, Enugu, Osun, Ogun, Imo, Ondo, Oyo, Rivers, Cross River, Bayelsa, Delta and Lagos States in the afternoon to evening hours, “ it said. The agency predicted sunny and hazy conditions over the Northern region on Wednesday with chances of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Adamawa and Taraba in the afternoon and evening hours. NiMet anticipated cloudy conditions with spells of sunshine over the North central region in the morning hours with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Kogi, Kwara, Nasarawa and Benue later in the day.    “The inland and coastal cities of the South should be cloudy with prospects of isolated thunderstorms over parts of Osun, Ogun, Lagos, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River during the morning hours. “Later in the day, thunderstorms are expected over the inland and the coastal belt. The Southern parts of the country are still at risk of flash floods.   “Emergency agencies are expected to be at alert. Strong and destructive winds are likely to accompany the thunderstorms. Citizens and Emergency agencies should be at alert and take necessary precautions, “ it said. NiMet urged airline operators to get updated weather reports from its office for effective planning in their operations. (NAN)