By Ishaq ZakiThe  Police Command in Zamfara has  rescued  27 persons kidnapped from Kawa, Gwashi, Tungar Rogo and Anka towns in Anka and Bukkuyum local government areas of the state. The victim’s were rescued after seven days  in captivity.The command’s spokesperson, SP Muhammad Shehu while presenting the rescued victims to the state Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Alhaji Mamman Tsafe in Gusau on Saturday,  said the victims were rescued unconditionally.  Shehu said the victims were taken to bandits’ camps at Gando/Bagega and Sunke forests in Bukkuyum and Anka local government areas respectively. “The rescue was sequel to the report received by the command that a group of bandits invaded the  villages and abducted unspecified number of people and took them to Gando/Bagega/ Sunke forests. “Receiving the report, police deployed additional Tactical operatives to reinforce DPOs  Anka/Bukkuyum and vigilante in their rescue operation to rescue the abductees.  “A well coordinated search and rescue operation was carried out with the full support and partnership of the two council  sole administrators of Anka and Bukkuyum.“The outcome of the rescue operation was the unconditional rescue of  the 27 kidnap victims.  “Now 17 out of the 27 were presently brought to the police command headquarters while the remaining 10 are  in the hospital receiving medical attention,  following the trauma they passed through while in captivity. “All the victims have been debriefed by police detectives,”  he explained. Receiving the rescued victims,  Tsafe commended the  commissioner of police and other security agencies for their efforts in the  fight against banditry and other security challenges in  the state.  Tsafe said the effort was part of the commitments of the  Gov. Bello Matawalle’s administration in the fight against banditry. He congratulated the victims for regaining their freedom and assured  government’s readiness to continue supporting security agencies in the state to achieve sustainable peace and stability. (NAN)